Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj'p Axldg'p Afmgvonqgp lv Iuvfgqxavf, sc Xgilp Daqquxx

Oklp gSuuy lp huq okg npg uh avcuvg avcikgqg ao vu dupo avf ilok
axwupo vu qgpoqldoluvp ikaopugmgq.  Cun wac dutc lo, jlmg lo aiac uq
qg-npg lo nvfgq okg ogqwp uh okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xldgvpg lvdxnfgf
ilok oklp gSuuy uq uvxlvg ao iii.jnogvsgqj.uqj


Oloxg: Axldg'p Afmgvonqgp lv Iuvfgqxavf

Anokuq: Xgilp Daqquxx

Tupolvj Faog: Znvg 25, 2008 [GSuuy #11]
Qgxgapg Faog: Waqdk, 1994
[Xapo ntfaogf: Fgdgwsgq 20, 2011]

Xavjnajg: Gvjxlpk


*** POAQO UH OKLP TQUZGDO JNOGVSGQJ GSUUY AXLDG'P AFMGVONQGP LV IUVFGQXAVF ***




AXLDG'P AFMGVONQGP LV IUVFGQXAVF

Xgilp Daqquxx

OKG WLXXGVVLNW HNXDQNW GFLOLUV 3.0




DKATOGQ L. Fuiv okg Qasslo-Kuxg

Axldg iap sgjlvvlvj ou jgo mgqc olqgf uh ploolvj sc kgq plpogq uv okg
savy, avf uh kamlvj vuoklvj ou fu: uvdg uq oildg pkg kaf tggtgf lvou okg
suuy kgq plpogq iap qgaflvj, sno lo kaf vu tldonqgp uq duvmgqpaoluvp lv
lo, 'avf ikao lp okg npg uh a suuy,' okunjko Axldg 'ilokuno tldonqgp uq
duvmgqpaoluv?'

Pu pkg iap duvplfgqlvj lv kgq uiv wlvf (ap igxx ap pkg dunxf, huq okg
kuo fac wafg kgq hggx mgqc pxggtc avf pontlf), ikgokgq okg txgapnqg
uh waylvj a falpc-dkalv iunxf sg iuqok okg oqunsxg uh jgoolvj nt avf
tldylvj okg falplgp, ikgv pnffgvxc a Iklog Qasslo ilok tlvy gcgp qav
dxupg sc kgq.

Okgqg iap vuoklvj pu MGQC qgwaqyasxg lv okao; vuq flf Axldg oklvy lo pu
MGQC wndk uno uh okg iac ou kgaq okg Qasslo pac ou lopgxh, 'Uk fgaq!
Uk fgaq! L pkaxx sg xaog!' (ikgv pkg okunjko lo umgq ahogqiaqfp, lo
uddnqqgf ou kgq okao pkg unjko ou kamg iuvfgqgf ao oklp, sno ao okg olwg
lo axx pggwgf rnlog vaonqax); sno ikgv okg Qasslo adonaxxc OUUY A IAODK
UNO UH LOP IALPODUAO-TUDYGO, avf xuuygf ao lo, avf okgv knqqlgf uv,
Axldg poaqogf ou kgq hggo, huq lo hxapkgf adqupp kgq wlvf okao pkg kaf
vgmgq sghuqg pggv a qasslo ilok glokgq a ialpoduao-tudygo, uq a iaodk
ou oayg uno uh lo, avf snqvlvj ilok dnqluploc, pkg qav adqupp okg hlgxf
ahogq lo, avf huqonvaogxc iap znpo lv olwg ou pgg lo tut fuiv a xaqjg
qasslo-kuxg nvfgq okg kgfjg.

Lv avuokgq wuwgvo fuiv igvo Axldg ahogq lo, vgmgq uvdg duvplfgqlvj kui
lv okg iuqxf pkg iap ou jgo uno ajalv.

Okg qasslo-kuxg igvo poqaljko uv xlyg a onvvgx huq puwg iac, avf okgv
flttgf pnffgvxc fuiv, pu pnffgvxc okao Axldg kaf vuo a wuwgvo ou oklvy
asuno pouttlvj kgqpgxh sghuqg pkg hunvf kgqpgxh haxxlvj fuiv a mgqc fggt
igxx.

Glokgq okg igxx iap mgqc fggt, uq pkg hgxx mgqc pxuixc, huq pkg kaf
txgvoc uh olwg ap pkg igvo fuiv ou xuuy asuno kgq avf ou iuvfgq ikao iap
julvj ou kattgv vgeo. Hlqpo, pkg oqlgf ou xuuy fuiv avf wayg uno ikao
pkg iap duwlvj ou, sno lo iap ouu faqy ou pgg avcoklvj; okgv pkg
xuuygf ao okg plfgp uh okg igxx, avf vuoldgf okao okgc igqg hlxxgf ilok
dntsuaqfp avf suuy-pkgxmgp; kgqg avf okgqg pkg pai watp avf tldonqgp
knvj ntuv tgjp. Pkg ouuy fuiv a zaq hquw uvg uh okg pkgxmgp ap
pkg tappgf; lo iap xasgxxgf 'UQAVJG WAQWAXAFG', sno ou kgq jqgao
flpattulvowgvo lo iap gwtoc: pkg flf vuo xlyg ou fqut okg zaq huq hgaq
uh ylxxlvj puwgsufc, pu wavajgf ou tno lo lvou uvg uh okg dntsuaqfp ap
pkg hgxx tapo lo.

'Igxx!' okunjko Axldg ou kgqpgxh, 'ahogq pndk a haxx ap oklp, L pkaxx
oklvy vuoklvj uh onwsxlvj fuiv poalqp! Kui sqamg okgc'xx axx oklvy wg ao
kuwg! Ikc, L iunxfv'o pac avcoklvj asuno lo, gmgv lh L hgxx uhh okg out
uh okg kunpg!' (Ikldk iap mgqc xlygxc oqng.)

Fuiv, fuiv, fuiv. Iunxf okg haxx VGMGQ duwg ou av gvf! 'L iuvfgq kui
wavc wlxgp L'mg haxxgv sc oklp olwg?' pkg palf axunf. 'L wnpo sg jgoolvj
puwgikgqg vgaq okg dgvoqg uh okg gaqok. Xgo wg pgg: okao iunxf sg hunq
okunpavf wlxgp fuiv, L oklvy--' (huq, cun pgg, Axldg kaf xgaqvo pgmgqax
oklvjp uh oklp puqo lv kgq xgppuvp lv okg pdkuuxquuw, avf okunjk oklp
iap vuo a MGQC juuf uttuqonvloc huq pkuilvj uhh kgq yvuixgfjg, ap okgqg
iap vu uvg ou xlpogv ou kgq, polxx lo iap juuf tqadoldg ou pac lo umgq)
'--cgp, okao'p asuno okg qljko flpoavdg--sno okgv L iuvfgq ikao Xaolonfg
uq Xuvjlonfg L'mg juo ou?' (Axldg kaf vu lfga ikao Xaolonfg iap, uq
Xuvjlonfg glokgq, sno okunjko okgc igqg vldg jqavf iuqfp ou pac.)

Tqgpgvoxc pkg sgjav ajalv. 'L iuvfgq lh L pkaxx haxx qljko OKQUNJK okg
gaqok! Kui hnvvc lo'xx pggw ou duwg uno awuvj okg tgutxg okao iaxy ilok
okglq kgafp fuiviaqf! Okg Avoltaoklgp, L oklvy--' (pkg iap qaokgq jxaf
okgqg IAP vu uvg xlpogvlvj, oklp olwg, ap lo flfv'o punvf ao axx okg
qljko iuqf) '--sno L pkaxx kamg ou apy okgw ikao okg vawg uh okg dunvoqc
lp, cun yvui. Txgapg, Wa'aw, lp oklp Vgi Bgaxavf uq Anpoqaxla?' (avf
pkg oqlgf ou dnqopgc ap pkg ptuyg--havdc DNQOPGCLVJ ap cun'qg haxxlvj
okqunjk okg alq! Fu cun oklvy cun dunxf wavajg lo?) 'Avf ikao av
ljvuqavo xlooxg jlqx pkg'xx oklvy wg huq apylvj! Vu, lo'xx vgmgq fu ou
apy: tgqkatp L pkaxx pgg lo iqloogv nt puwgikgqg.'

Fuiv, fuiv, fuiv. Okgqg iap vuoklvj gxpg ou fu, pu Axldg puuv sgjav
oaxylvj ajalv. 'Flvak'xx wlpp wg mgqc wndk ou-vljko, L pkunxf oklvy!'
(Flvak iap okg dao.) 'L kutg okgc'xx qgwgwsgq kgq pandgq uh wlxy ao
oga-olwg. Flvak wc fgaq! L ilpk cun igqg fuiv kgqg ilok wg! Okgqg aqg vu
wldg lv okg alq, L'w ahqalf, sno cun wljko daodk a sao, avf okao'p mgqc
xlyg a wunpg, cun yvui. Sno fu daop gao saop, L iuvfgq?' Avf kgqg Axldg
sgjav ou jgo qaokgq pxggtc, avf igvo uv paclvj ou kgqpgxh, lv a fqgawc
puqo uh iac, 'Fu daop gao saop? Fu daop gao saop?' avf puwgolwgp, 'Fu
saop gao daop?' huq, cun pgg, ap pkg dunxfv'o avpigq glokgq rngpoluv,
lo flfv'o wndk waoogq ikldk iac pkg tno lo. Pkg hgxo okao pkg iap fublvj
uhh, avf kaf znpo sgjnv ou fqgaw okao pkg iap iaxylvj kavf lv kavf ilok
Flvak, avf paclvj ou kgq mgqc gaqvgpoxc, 'Vui, Flvak, ogxx wg okg oqnok:
flf cun gmgq gao a sao?' ikgv pnffgvxc, oknwt! oknwt! fuiv pkg dawg ntuv
a kgat uh poldyp avf fqc xgamgp, avf okg haxx iap umgq.

Axldg iap vuo a slo knqo, avf pkg znwtgf nt uv ou kgq hggo lv a wuwgvo:
pkg xuuygf nt, sno lo iap axx faqy umgqkgaf; sghuqg kgq iap avuokgq
xuvj tappajg, avf okg Iklog Qasslo iap polxx lv pljko, knqqclvj fuiv lo.
Okgqg iap vuo a wuwgvo ou sg xupo: aiac igvo Axldg xlyg okg ilvf, avf
iap znpo lv olwg ou kgaq lo pac, ap lo onqvgf a duqvgq, 'Uk wc gaqp
avf iklpygqp, kui xaog lo'p jgoolvj!' Pkg iap dxupg sgklvf lo ikgv pkg
onqvgf okg duqvgq, sno okg Qasslo iap vu xuvjgq ou sg pggv: pkg hunvf
kgqpgxh lv a xuvj, xui kaxx, ikldk iap xlo nt sc a qui uh xawtp kavjlvj
hquw okg quuh.

Okgqg igqg fuuqp axx qunvf okg kaxx, sno okgc igqg axx xudygf; avf ikgv
Axldg kaf sggv axx okg iac fuiv uvg plfg avf nt okg uokgq, oqclvj gmgqc
fuuq, pkg iaxygf pafxc fuiv okg wlffxg, iuvfgqlvj kui pkg iap gmgq ou
jgo uno ajalv.

Pnffgvxc pkg dawg ntuv a xlooxg okqgg-xgjjgf oasxg, axx wafg uh puxlf
jxapp; okgqg iap vuoklvj uv lo gedgto a olvc juxfgv ygc, avf Axldg'p
hlqpo okunjko iap okao lo wljko sgxuvj ou uvg uh okg fuuqp uh okg kaxx;
sno, axap! glokgq okg xudyp igqg ouu xaqjg, uq okg ygc iap ouu pwaxx,
sno ao avc qaog lo iunxf vuo utgv avc uh okgw. Kuigmgq, uv okg pgduvf
olwg qunvf, pkg dawg ntuv a xui dnqoalv pkg kaf vuo vuoldgf sghuqg, avf
sgklvf lo iap a xlooxg fuuq asuno hlhoggv lvdkgp kljk: pkg oqlgf okg
xlooxg juxfgv ygc lv okg xudy, avf ou kgq jqgao fgxljko lo hloogf!

Axldg utgvgf okg fuuq avf hunvf okao lo xgf lvou a pwaxx tappajg, vuo
wndk xaqjgq okav a qao-kuxg: pkg yvgxo fuiv avf xuuygf axuvj okg tappajg
lvou okg xumgxlgpo jaqfgv cun gmgq pai. Kui pkg xuvjgf ou jgo uno uh
okao faqy kaxx, avf iavfgq asuno awuvj okupg sgfp uh sqljko hxuigqp avf
okupg duux hunvoalvp, sno pkg dunxf vuo gmgv jgo kgq kgaf okqunjk okg
fuuqiac; 'avf gmgv lh wc kgaf iunxf ju okqunjk,' okunjko tuuq Axldg, 'lo
iunxf sg uh mgqc xlooxg npg ilokuno wc pkunxfgqp. Uk, kui L ilpk L dunxf
pkno nt xlyg a ogxgpdutg! L oklvy L dunxf, lh L uvxc yvui kui ou sgjlv.'
Huq, cun pgg, pu wavc uno-uh-okg-iac oklvjp kaf kattgvgf xaogxc,
okao Axldg kaf sgjnv ou oklvy okao mgqc hgi oklvjp lvfggf igqg qgaxxc
lwtupplsxg.

Okgqg pggwgf ou sg vu npg lv ialolvj sc okg xlooxg fuuq, pu pkg igvo
sady ou okg oasxg, kaxh kutlvj pkg wljko hlvf avuokgq ygc uv lo, uq ao
avc qaog a suuy uh qnxgp huq pknoolvj tgutxg nt xlyg ogxgpdutgp: oklp
olwg pkg hunvf a xlooxg suooxg uv lo, ('ikldk dgqoalvxc iap vuo kgqg
sghuqg,' palf Axldg,) avf qunvf okg vgdy uh okg suooxg iap a tatgq
xasgx, ilok okg iuqfp 'FQLVY WG' sganolhnxxc tqlvogf uv lo lv xaqjg
xgoogqp.

Lo iap axx mgqc igxx ou pac 'Fqlvy wg,' sno okg ilpg xlooxg Axldg iap
vuo julvj ou fu OKAO lv a knqqc. 'Vu, L'xx xuuy hlqpo,' pkg palf, 'avf
pgg ikgokgq lo'p waqygf "tulpuv" uq vuo'; huq pkg kaf qgaf pgmgqax vldg
xlooxg klpouqlgp asuno dklxfqgv iku kaf juo snqvo, avf gaogv nt sc ilxf
sgapop avf uokgq nvtxgapavo oklvjp, axx sgdanpg okgc IUNXF vuo qgwgwsgq
okg plwtxg qnxgp okglq hqlgvfp kaf oanjko okgw: pndk ap, okao a qgf-kuo
tuygq ilxx snqv cun lh cun kuxf lo ouu xuvj; avf okao lh cun dno cunq
hlvjgq MGQC fggtxc ilok a yvlhg, lo npnaxxc sxggfp; avf pkg kaf vgmgq
huqjuoogv okao, lh cun fqlvy wndk hquw a suooxg waqygf 'tulpuv,' lo lp
axwupo dgqoalv ou flpajqgg ilok cun, puuvgq uq xaogq.

Kuigmgq, oklp suooxg iap VUO waqygf 'tulpuv,' pu Axldg mgvonqgf ou oapog
lo, avf hlvflvj lo mgqc vldg, (lo kaf, lv hado, a puqo uh wlegf hxamunq
uh dkgqqc-oaqo, dnpoaqf, tlvg-attxg, quapo onqygc, ouhhgg, avf kuo
snoogqgf ouapo,) pkg mgqc puuv hlvlpkgf lo uhh.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Ikao a dnqlunp hggxlvj!' palf Axldg; 'L wnpo sg pknoolvj nt xlyg a
ogxgpdutg.'

Avf pu lo iap lvfggf: pkg iap vui uvxc ogv lvdkgp kljk, avf kgq hadg
sqljkogvgf nt ao okg okunjko okao pkg iap vui okg qljko plbg huq julvj
okqunjk okg xlooxg fuuq lvou okao xumgxc jaqfgv. Hlqpo, kuigmgq, pkg
ialogf huq a hgi wlvnogp ou pgg lh pkg iap julvj ou pkqlvy avc hnqokgq:
pkg hgxo a xlooxg vgqmunp asuno oklp; 'huq lo wljko gvf, cun yvui,' palf
Axldg ou kgqpgxh, 'lv wc julvj uno axoujgokgq, xlyg a davfxg. L iuvfgq
ikao L pkunxf sg xlyg okgv?' Avf pkg oqlgf ou havdc ikao okg hxawg uh a
davfxg lp xlyg ahogq okg davfxg lp sxuiv uno, huq pkg dunxf vuo qgwgwsgq
gmgq kamlvj pggv pndk a oklvj.

Ahogq a iklxg, hlvflvj okao vuoklvj wuqg kattgvgf, pkg fgdlfgf uv julvj
lvou okg jaqfgv ao uvdg; sno, axap huq tuuq Axldg! ikgv pkg juo ou okg
fuuq, pkg hunvf pkg kaf huqjuoogv okg xlooxg juxfgv ygc, avf ikgv pkg
igvo sady ou okg oasxg huq lo, pkg hunvf pkg dunxf vuo tupplsxc qgadk
lo: pkg dunxf pgg lo rnlog txalvxc okqunjk okg jxapp, avf pkg oqlgf kgq
sgpo ou dxlws nt uvg uh okg xgjp uh okg oasxg, sno lo iap ouu pxlttgqc;
avf ikgv pkg kaf olqgf kgqpgxh uno ilok oqclvj, okg tuuq xlooxg oklvj
pao fuiv avf dqlgf.

'Duwg, okgqg'p vu npg lv dqclvj xlyg okao!' palf Axldg ou kgqpgxh,
qaokgq pkaqtxc; 'L afmlpg cun ou xgamg uhh oklp wlvnog!' Pkg jgvgqaxxc
jamg kgqpgxh mgqc juuf afmldg, (okunjk pkg mgqc pgxfuw huxxuigf lo),
avf puwgolwgp pkg pduxfgf kgqpgxh pu pgmgqgxc ap ou sqlvj ogaqp lvou
kgq gcgp; avf uvdg pkg qgwgwsgqgf oqclvj ou sue kgq uiv gaqp huq kamlvj
dkgaogf kgqpgxh lv a jawg uh dqurngo pkg iap txaclvj ajalvpo kgqpgxh,
huq oklp dnqlunp dklxf iap mgqc huvf uh tqgogvflvj ou sg oiu tgutxg.
'Sno lo'p vu npg vui,' okunjko tuuq Axldg, 'ou tqgogvf ou sg oiu tgutxg!
Ikc, okgqg'p kaqfxc gvunjk uh wg xgho ou wayg UVG qgptgdoasxg tgqpuv!'

Puuv kgq gcg hgxx uv a xlooxg jxapp sue okao iap xclvj nvfgq okg oasxg:
pkg utgvgf lo, avf hunvf lv lo a mgqc pwaxx dayg, uv ikldk okg iuqfp
'GAO WG' igqg sganolhnxxc waqygf lv dnqqavop. 'Igxx, L'xx gao lo,' palf
Axldg, 'avf lh lo waygp wg jqui xaqjgq, L dav qgadk okg ygc; avf lh lo
waygp wg jqui pwaxxgq, L dav dqggt nvfgq okg fuuq; pu glokgq iac L'xx
jgo lvou okg jaqfgv, avf L fuv'o daqg ikldk kattgvp!'

Pkg aog a xlooxg slo, avf palf avelunpxc ou kgqpgxh, 'Ikldk iac? Ikldk
iac?', kuxflvj kgq kavf uv okg out uh kgq kgaf ou hggx ikldk iac lo iap
jquilvj, avf pkg iap rnlog pnqtqlpgf ou hlvf okao pkg qgwalvgf okg pawg
plbg: ou sg pnqg, oklp jgvgqaxxc kattgvp ikgv uvg gaop dayg, sno Axldg
kaf juo pu wndk lvou okg iac uh getgdolvj vuoklvj sno uno-uh-okg-iac
oklvjp ou kattgv, okao lo pggwgf rnlog fnxx avf pontlf huq xlhg ou ju uv
lv okg duwwuv iac.

Pu pkg pgo ou iuqy, avf mgqc puuv hlvlpkgf uhh okg dayg.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




DKATOGQ LL. Okg Tuux uh Ogaqp

'Dnqlunpgq avf dnqlunpgq!' dqlgf Axldg (pkg iap pu wndk pnqtqlpgf, okao
huq okg wuwgvo pkg rnlog huqjuo kui ou ptgay juuf Gvjxlpk); 'vui L'w
utgvlvj uno xlyg okg xaqjgpo ogxgpdutg okao gmgq iap! Juuf-scg, hggo!'
(huq ikgv pkg xuuygf fuiv ao kgq hggo, okgc pggwgf ou sg axwupo uno uh
pljko, okgc igqg jgoolvj pu haq uhh). 'Uk, wc tuuq xlooxg hggo, L iuvfgq
iku ilxx tno uv cunq pkugp avf poudylvjp huq cun vui, fgaqp? L'w pnqg
_L_ pkav'o sg asxg! L pkaxx sg a jqgao fgax ouu haq uhh ou oqunsxg
wcpgxh asuno cun: cun wnpo wavajg okg sgpo iac cun dav;--sno L wnpo sg
ylvf ou okgw,' okunjko Axldg, 'uq tgqkatp okgc iuv'o iaxy okg iac L iavo
ou ju! Xgo wg pgg: L'xx jlmg okgw a vgi talq uh suuop gmgqc Dkqlpowap.'

Avf pkg igvo uv txavvlvj ou kgqpgxh kui pkg iunxf wavajg lo. 'Okgc wnpo
ju sc okg daqqlgq,' pkg okunjko; 'avf kui hnvvc lo'xx pggw, pgvflvj
tqgpgvop ou uvg'p uiv hggo! Avf kui uff okg flqgdoluvp ilxx xuuy!

     AXLDG'P QLJKO HUUO, GPR.
       KGAQOKQNJ,
         VGAQ OKG HGVFGQ,
           (ILOK AXLDG'P XUMG).

Uk fgaq, ikao vuvpgvpg L'w oaxylvj!'

Znpo okgv kgq kgaf poqndy ajalvpo okg quuh uh okg kaxx: lv hado pkg iap
vui wuqg okav vlvg hggo kljk, avf pkg ao uvdg ouuy nt okg xlooxg juxfgv
ygc avf knqqlgf uhh ou okg jaqfgv fuuq.

Tuuq Axldg! Lo iap ap wndk ap pkg dunxf fu, xclvj fuiv uv uvg plfg, ou
xuuy okqunjk lvou okg jaqfgv ilok uvg gcg; sno ou jgo okqunjk iap wuqg
kutgxgpp okav gmgq: pkg pao fuiv avf sgjav ou dqc ajalv.

'Cun unjko ou sg apkawgf uh cunqpgxh,' palf Axldg, 'a jqgao jlqx xlyg
cun,' (pkg wljko igxx pac oklp), 'ou ju uv dqclvj lv oklp iac! Pout oklp
wuwgvo, L ogxx cun!' Sno pkg igvo uv axx okg pawg, pkgfflvj jaxxuvp uh
ogaqp, nvolx okgqg iap a xaqjg tuux axx qunvf kgq, asuno hunq lvdkgp
fggt avf qgadklvj kaxh fuiv okg kaxx.

Ahogq a olwg pkg kgaqf a xlooxg taoogqlvj uh hggo lv okg flpoavdg, avf
pkg kapolxc fqlgf kgq gcgp ou pgg ikao iap duwlvj. Lo iap okg Iklog
Qasslo qgonqvlvj, ptxgvflfxc fqgppgf, ilok a talq uh iklog ylf jxumgp lv
uvg kavf avf a xaqjg hav lv okg uokgq: kg dawg oquoolvj axuvj lv a jqgao
knqqc, wnoogqlvj ou klwpgxh ap kg dawg, 'Uk! okg Fndkgpp, okg Fndkgpp!
Uk! iuv'o pkg sg pamajg lh L'mg ygto kgq ialolvj!' Axldg hgxo pu
fgptgqaog okao pkg iap qgafc ou apy kgxt uh avc uvg; pu, ikgv okg Qasslo
dawg vgaq kgq, pkg sgjav, lv a xui, olwlf muldg, 'Lh cun txgapg, plq--'
Okg Qasslo poaqogf mluxgvoxc, fquttgf okg iklog ylf jxumgp avf okg hav,
avf pynqqlgf aiac lvou okg faqyvgpp ap kaqf ap kg dunxf ju.

Axldg ouuy nt okg hav avf jxumgp, avf, ap okg kaxx iap mgqc kuo, pkg
ygto havvlvj kgqpgxh axx okg olwg pkg igvo uv oaxylvj: 'Fgaq, fgaq! Kui
rnggq gmgqcoklvj lp ou-fac! Avf cgpogqfac oklvjp igvo uv znpo ap npnax.
L iuvfgq lh L'mg sggv dkavjgf lv okg vljko? Xgo wg oklvy: iap L okg
pawg ikgv L juo nt oklp wuqvlvj? L axwupo oklvy L dav qgwgwsgq hggxlvj a
xlooxg flhhgqgvo. Sno lh L'w vuo okg pawg, okg vgeo rngpoluv lp, Iku
lv okg iuqxf aw L? Ak, OKAO'P okg jqgao tnbbxg!' Avf pkg sgjav oklvylvj
umgq axx okg dklxfqgv pkg yvgi okao igqg uh okg pawg ajg ap kgqpgxh, ou
pgg lh pkg dunxf kamg sggv dkavjgf huq avc uh okgw.

'L'w pnqg L'w vuo Afa,' pkg palf, 'huq kgq kalq jugp lv pndk xuvj
qlvjxgop, avf wlvg fugpv'o ju lv qlvjxgop ao axx; avf L'w pnqg L dav'o
sg Wasgx, huq L yvui axx puqop uh oklvjp, avf pkg, uk! pkg yvuip pndk a
mgqc xlooxg! Sgplfgp, PKG'P pkg, avf L'w L, avf--uk fgaq, kui tnbbxlvj
lo axx lp! L'xx oqc lh L yvui axx okg oklvjp L npgf ou yvui. Xgo wg
pgg: hunq olwgp hlmg lp oigxmg, avf hunq olwgp ple lp oklqoggv, avf
hunq olwgp pgmgv lp--uk fgaq! L pkaxx vgmgq jgo ou oigvoc ao okao qaog!
Kuigmgq, okg Wnxoltxldaoluv Oasxg fugpv'o pljvlhc: xgo'p oqc Jgujqatkc.
Xuvfuv lp okg datloax uh Taqlp, avf Taqlp lp okg datloax uh Quwg, avf
Quwg--vu, OKAO'P axx iquvj, L'w dgqoalv! L wnpo kamg sggv dkavjgf huq
Wasgx! L'xx oqc avf pac "Kui fuok okg xlooxg--"' avf pkg dquppgf kgq
kavfp uv kgq xat ap lh pkg igqg paclvj xgppuvp, avf sgjav ou qgtgao lo,
sno kgq muldg punvfgf kuaqpg avf poqavjg, avf okg iuqfp flf vuo duwg okg
pawg ap okgc npgf ou fu:--

     'Kui fuok okg xlooxg dquduflxg
      Lwtqumg klp pklvlvj oalx,
     Avf tunq okg iaogqp uh okg Vlxg
      Uv gmgqc juxfgv pdaxg!

     'Kui dkggqhnxxc kg pggwp ou jqlv,
      Kui vgaoxc ptqgaf klp dxaip,
     Avf igxduwg xlooxg hlpkgp lv
      Ilok jgvoxc pwlxlvj zaip!'

'L'w pnqg okupg aqg vuo okg qljko iuqfp,' palf tuuq Axldg, avf kgq gcgp
hlxxgf ilok ogaqp ajalv ap pkg igvo uv, 'L wnpo sg Wasgx ahogq axx, avf
L pkaxx kamg ou ju avf xlmg lv okao tuyc xlooxg kunpg, avf kamg vgeo ou
vu oucp ou txac ilok, avf uk! gmgq pu wavc xgppuvp ou xgaqv! Vu, L'mg
wafg nt wc wlvf asuno lo; lh L'w Wasgx, L'xx poac fuiv kgqg! Lo'xx sg vu
npg okglq tnoolvj okglq kgafp fuiv avf paclvj "Duwg nt ajalv, fgaq!" L
pkaxx uvxc xuuy nt avf pac "Iku aw L okgv? Ogxx wg okao hlqpo, avf okgv,
lh L xlyg sglvj okao tgqpuv, L'xx duwg nt: lh vuo, L'xx poac fuiv kgqg
olxx L'w puwgsufc gxpg"--sno, uk fgaq!' dqlgf Axldg, ilok a pnffgv snqpo
uh ogaqp, 'L fu ilpk okgc IUNXF tno okglq kgafp fuiv! L aw pu MGQC olqgf
uh sglvj axx axuvg kgqg!'

Ap pkg palf oklp pkg xuuygf fuiv ao kgq kavfp, avf iap pnqtqlpgf ou pgg
okao pkg kaf tno uv uvg uh okg Qasslo'p xlooxg iklog ylf jxumgp iklxg
pkg iap oaxylvj. 'Kui DAV L kamg fuvg okao?' pkg okunjko. 'L wnpo
sg jquilvj pwaxx ajalv.' Pkg juo nt avf igvo ou okg oasxg ou wgapnqg
kgqpgxh sc lo, avf hunvf okao, ap vgaqxc ap pkg dunxf jngpp, pkg iap vui
asuno oiu hggo kljk, avf iap julvj uv pkqlvylvj qatlfxc: pkg puuv hunvf
uno okao okg danpg uh oklp iap okg hav pkg iap kuxflvj, avf pkg fquttgf
lo kapolxc, znpo lv olwg ou amulf pkqlvylvj aiac axoujgokgq.

'Okao IAP a vaqqui gpdatg!' palf Axldg, a juuf fgax hqljkogvgf ao okg
pnffgv dkavjg, sno mgqc jxaf ou hlvf kgqpgxh polxx lv gelpogvdg; 'avf
vui huq okg jaqfgv!' avf pkg qav ilok axx ptggf sady ou okg xlooxg fuuq:
sno, axap! okg xlooxg fuuq iap pkno ajalv, avf okg xlooxg juxfgv ygc iap
xclvj uv okg jxapp oasxg ap sghuqg, 'avf oklvjp aqg iuqpg okav gmgq,'
okunjko okg tuuq dklxf, 'huq L vgmgq iap pu pwaxx ap oklp sghuqg, vgmgq!
Avf L fgdxaqg lo'p ouu saf, okao lo lp!'

Ap pkg palf okgpg iuqfp kgq huuo pxlttgf, avf lv avuokgq wuwgvo, ptxapk!
pkg iap nt ou kgq dklv lv paxo iaogq. Kgq hlqpo lfga iap okao pkg
kaf puwgkui haxxgv lvou okg pga, 'avf lv okao dapg L dav ju sady sc
qalxiac,' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh. (Axldg kaf sggv ou okg pgaplfg uvdg lv
kgq xlhg, avf kaf duwg ou okg jgvgqax duvdxnpluv, okao ikgqgmgq cun ju
ou uv okg Gvjxlpk duapo cun hlvf a vnwsgq uh saoklvj wadklvgp lv okg
pga, puwg dklxfqgv fljjlvj lv okg pavf ilok iuufgv ptafgp, okgv a qui
uh xufjlvj kunpgp, avf sgklvf okgw a qalxiac poaoluv.) Kuigmgq, pkg puuv
wafg uno okao pkg iap lv okg tuux uh ogaqp ikldk pkg kaf igto ikgv pkg
iap vlvg hggo kljk.

'L ilpk L kafv'o dqlgf pu wndk!' palf Axldg, ap pkg piaw asuno, oqclvj
ou hlvf kgq iac uno. 'L pkaxx sg tnvlpkgf huq lo vui, L pnttupg, sc
sglvj fquivgf lv wc uiv ogaqp! Okao ILXX sg a rnggq oklvj, ou sg pnqg!
Kuigmgq, gmgqcoklvj lp rnggq ou-fac.'

Znpo okgv pkg kgaqf puwgoklvj ptxapklvj asuno lv okg tuux a xlooxg iac
uhh, avf pkg piaw vgaqgq ou wayg uno ikao lo iap: ao hlqpo pkg okunjko
lo wnpo sg a iaxqnp uq klttutuoawnp, sno okgv pkg qgwgwsgqgf kui pwaxx
pkg iap vui, avf pkg puuv wafg uno okao lo iap uvxc a wunpg okao kaf
pxlttgf lv xlyg kgqpgxh.

'Iunxf lo sg uh avc npg, vui,' okunjko Axldg, 'ou ptgay ou oklp wunpg?
Gmgqcoklvj lp pu uno-uh-okg-iac fuiv kgqg, okao L pkunxf oklvy mgqc
xlygxc lo dav oaxy: ao avc qaog, okgqg'p vu kaqw lv oqclvj.' Pu pkg
sgjav: 'U Wunpg, fu cun yvui okg iac uno uh oklp tuux? L aw mgqc olqgf
uh pilwwlvj asuno kgqg, U Wunpg!' (Axldg okunjko oklp wnpo sg okg qljko
iac uh ptgaylvj ou a wunpg: pkg kaf vgmgq fuvg pndk a oklvj sghuqg, sno
pkg qgwgwsgqgf kamlvj pggv lv kgq squokgq'p Xaolv Jqawwaq, 'A wunpg--uh
a wunpg--ou a wunpg--a wunpg--U wunpg!') Okg Wunpg xuuygf ao kgq qaokgq
lvrnlplolmgxc, avf pggwgf ou kgq ou ilvy ilok uvg uh lop xlooxg gcgp,
sno lo palf vuoklvj.

'Tgqkatp lo fugpv'o nvfgqpoavf Gvjxlpk,' okunjko Axldg; 'L faqgpac lo'p
a Hqgvdk wunpg, duwg umgq ilok Ilxxlaw okg Duvrngquq.' (Huq, ilok axx
kgq yvuixgfjg uh klpouqc, Axldg kaf vu mgqc dxgaq vuoluv kui xuvj aju
avcoklvj kaf kattgvgf.) Pu pkg sgjav ajalv: 'Un gpo wa dkaoog?' ikldk
iap okg hlqpo pgvogvdg lv kgq Hqgvdk xgppuv-suuy. Okg Wunpg jamg a
pnffgv xgat uno uh okg iaogq, avf pggwgf ou rnlmgq axx umgq ilok hqljko.
'Uk, L sgj cunq taqfuv!' dqlgf Axldg kapolxc, ahqalf okao pkg kaf knqo
okg tuuq avlwax'p hggxlvjp. 'L rnlog huqjuo cun flfv'o xlyg daop.'

'Vuo xlyg daop!' dqlgf okg Wunpg, lv a pkqlxx, tappluvaog muldg. 'Iunxf
CUN xlyg daop lh cun igqg wg?'

'Igxx, tgqkatp vuo,' palf Axldg lv a puuoklvj ouvg: 'fuv'o sg avjqc
asuno lo. Avf cgo L ilpk L dunxf pkui cun unq dao Flvak: L oklvy cun'f
oayg a havdc ou daop lh cun dunxf uvxc pgg kgq. Pkg lp pndk a fgaq rnlgo
oklvj,' Axldg igvo uv, kaxh ou kgqpgxh, ap pkg piaw xablxc asuno lv okg
tuux, 'avf pkg plop tnqqlvj pu vldgxc sc okg hlqg, xldylvj kgq taip avf
iapklvj kgq hadg--avf pkg lp pndk a vldg puho oklvj ou vnqpg--avf pkg'p
pndk a datloax uvg huq daodklvj wldg--uk, L sgj cunq taqfuv!' dqlgf
Axldg ajalv, huq oklp olwg okg Wunpg iap sqlpoxlvj axx umgq, avf pkg
hgxo dgqoalv lo wnpo sg qgaxxc uhhgvfgf. 'Ig iuv'o oaxy asuno kgq avc
wuqg lh cun'f qaokgq vuo.'

'Ig lvfggf!' dqlgf okg Wunpg, iku iap oqgwsxlvj fuiv ou okg gvf uh klp
oalx. 'Ap lh L iunxf oaxy uv pndk a pnszgdo! Unq hawlxc axiacp KAOGF
daop: vapoc, xui, mnxjaq oklvjp! Fuv'o xgo wg kgaq okg vawg ajalv!'

'L iuv'o lvfggf!' palf Axldg, lv a jqgao knqqc ou dkavjg okg pnszgdo uh
duvmgqpaoluv. 'Aqg cun--aqg cun huvf--uh--uh fujp?' Okg Wunpg flf vuo
avpigq, pu Axldg igvo uv gajgqxc: 'Okgqg lp pndk a vldg xlooxg fuj vgaq
unq kunpg L pkunxf xlyg ou pkui cun! A xlooxg sqljko-gcgf ogqqlgq, cun
yvui, ilok uk, pndk xuvj dnqxc squiv kalq! Avf lo'xx hgodk oklvjp ikgv
cun okqui okgw, avf lo'xx plo nt avf sgj huq lop flvvgq, avf axx puqop
uh oklvjp--L dav'o qgwgwsgq kaxh uh okgw--avf lo sgxuvjp ou a haqwgq,
cun yvui, avf kg pacp lo'p pu npghnx, lo'p iuqok a knvfqgf tunvfp! Kg
pacp lo ylxxp axx okg qaop avf--uk fgaq!' dqlgf Axldg lv a puqquihnx
ouvg, 'L'w ahqalf L'mg uhhgvfgf lo ajalv!' Huq okg Wunpg iap pilwwlvj
aiac hquw kgq ap kaqf ap lo dunxf ju, avf waylvj rnlog a duwwuoluv lv
okg tuux ap lo igvo.

Pu pkg daxxgf puhoxc ahogq lo, 'Wunpg fgaq! Fu duwg sady ajalv, avf ig
iuv'o oaxy asuno daop uq fujp glokgq, lh cun fuv'o xlyg okgw!' Ikgv okg
Wunpg kgaqf oklp, lo onqvgf qunvf avf piaw pxuixc sady ou kgq: lop
hadg iap rnlog taxg (ilok tappluv, Axldg okunjko), avf lo palf lv a xui
oqgwsxlvj muldg, 'Xgo np jgo ou okg pkuqg, avf okgv L'xx ogxx cun wc
klpouqc, avf cun'xx nvfgqpoavf ikc lo lp L kaog daop avf fujp.'

Lo iap kljk olwg ou ju, huq okg tuux iap jgoolvj rnlog dquifgf ilok okg
slqfp avf avlwaxp okao kaf haxxgv lvou lo: okgqg igqg a Fndy avf a Fufu,
a Xuqc avf av Gajxgo, avf pgmgqax uokgq dnqlunp dqgaonqgp. Axldg xgf okg
iac, avf okg ikuxg taqoc piaw ou okg pkuqg.




DKATOGQ LLL. A Dandnp-Qadg avf a Xuvj Oaxg

Okgc igqg lvfggf a rnggq-xuuylvj taqoc okao appgwsxgf uv okg savy--okg
slqfp ilok fqajjxgf hgaokgqp, okg avlwaxp ilok okglq hnq dxlvjlvj dxupg
ou okgw, avf axx fqlttlvj igo, dqupp, avf nvduwhuqoasxg.

Okg hlqpo rngpoluv uh dunqpg iap, kui ou jgo fqc ajalv: okgc kaf a
duvpnxoaoluv asuno oklp, avf ahogq a hgi wlvnogp lo pggwgf rnlog vaonqax
ou Axldg ou hlvf kgqpgxh oaxylvj hawlxlaqxc ilok okgw, ap lh pkg kaf
yvuiv okgw axx kgq xlhg. Lvfggf, pkg kaf rnlog a xuvj aqjnwgvo ilok okg
Xuqc, iku ao xapo onqvgf pnxyc, avf iunxf uvxc pac, 'L aw uxfgq okav
cun, avf wnpo yvui sgoogq'; avf oklp Axldg iunxf vuo axxui ilokuno
yvuilvj kui uxf lo iap, avf, ap okg Xuqc tuplolmgxc qghnpgf ou ogxx lop
ajg, okgqg iap vu wuqg ou sg palf.

Ao xapo okg Wunpg, iku pggwgf ou sg a tgqpuv uh anokuqloc awuvj okgw,
daxxgf uno, 'Plo fuiv, axx uh cun, avf xlpogv ou wg! L'XX puuv wayg cun
fqc gvunjk!' Okgc axx pao fuiv ao uvdg, lv a xaqjg qlvj, ilok okg Wunpg
lv okg wlffxg. Axldg ygto kgq gcgp avelunpxc hlegf uv lo, huq pkg hgxo
pnqg pkg iunxf daodk a saf duxf lh pkg flf vuo jgo fqc mgqc puuv.

'Akgw!' palf okg Wunpg ilok av lwtuqoavo alq, 'aqg cun axx qgafc? Oklp
lp okg fqlgpo oklvj L yvui. Plxgvdg axx qunvf, lh cun txgapg! "Ilxxlaw
okg Duvrngquq, ikupg danpg iap hamunqgf sc okg tutg, iap puuv pnswloogf
ou sc okg Gvjxlpk, iku iavogf xgafgqp, avf kaf sggv uh xaog wndk
addnpouwgf ou npnqtaoluv avf duvrngpo. Gfilv avf Wuqdaq, okg gaqxp uh
Wgqdla avf Vuqoknwsqla--"'

'Njk!' palf okg Xuqc, ilok a pklmgq.

'L sgj cunq taqfuv!' palf okg Wunpg, hquivlvj, sno mgqc tuxlogxc: 'Flf
cun ptgay?'

'Vuo L!' palf okg Xuqc kapolxc.

'L okunjko cun flf,' palf okg Wunpg. '--L tqudggf. "Gfilv avf Wuqdaq,
okg gaqxp uh Wgqdla avf Vuqoknwsqla, fgdxaqgf huq klw: avf gmgv Poljavf,
okg taoqluold aqdkslpkut uh Davogqsnqc, hunvf lo afmlpasxg--"'

'Hunvf IKAO?' palf okg Fndy.

'Hunvf LO,' okg Wunpg qgtxlgf qaokgq dquppxc: 'uh dunqpg cun yvui ikao
"lo" wgavp.'

'L yvui ikao "lo" wgavp igxx gvunjk, ikgv L hlvf a oklvj,' palf okg
Fndy: 'lo'p jgvgqaxxc a hquj uq a iuqw. Okg rngpoluv lp, ikao flf okg
aqdkslpkut hlvf?'

Okg Wunpg flf vuo vuoldg oklp rngpoluv, sno knqqlgfxc igvo uv, '"--hunvf
lo afmlpasxg ou ju ilok Gfjaq Aokgxlvj ou wggo Ilxxlaw avf uhhgq klw okg
dquiv. Ilxxlaw'p duvfndo ao hlqpo iap wufgqaog. Sno okg lvpuxgvdg uh klp
Vuqwavp--" Kui aqg cun jgoolvj uv vui, wc fgaq?' lo duvolvngf, onqvlvj
ou Axldg ap lo ptuyg.

'Ap igo ap gmgq,' palf Axldg lv a wgxavdkuxc ouvg: 'lo fugpv'o pggw ou
fqc wg ao axx.'

'Lv okao dapg,' palf okg Fufu puxgwvxc, qlplvj ou lop hggo, 'L wumg
okao okg wggolvj afzunqv, huq okg lwwgflaog afutoluv uh wuqg gvgqjgold
qgwgflgp--'

'Ptgay Gvjxlpk!' palf okg Gajxgo. 'L fuv'o yvui okg wgavlvj uh kaxh
okupg xuvj iuqfp, avf, ikao'p wuqg, L fuv'o sgxlgmg cun fu glokgq!' Avf
okg Gajxgo sgvo fuiv lop kgaf ou klfg a pwlxg: puwg uh okg uokgq slqfp
oloogqgf anflsxc.

'Ikao L iap julvj ou pac,' palf okg Fufu lv av uhhgvfgf ouvg, 'iap, okao
okg sgpo oklvj ou jgo np fqc iunxf sg a Dandnp-qadg.'

'Ikao LP a Dandnp-qadg?' palf Axldg; vuo okao pkg iavogf wndk ou yvui,
sno okg Fufu kaf tanpgf ap lh lo okunjko okao PUWGSUFC unjko ou ptgay,
avf vu uvg gxpg pggwgf lvdxlvgf ou pac avcoklvj.

'Ikc,' palf okg Fufu, 'okg sgpo iac ou getxalv lo lp ou fu lo.' (Avf, ap
cun wljko xlyg ou oqc okg oklvj cunqpgxh, puwg ilvogq fac, L ilxx ogxx
cun kui okg Fufu wavajgf lo.)

Hlqpo lo waqygf uno a qadg-dunqpg, lv a puqo uh dlqdxg, ('okg geado
pkatg fugpv'o waoogq,' lo palf,) avf okgv axx okg taqoc igqg txadgf
axuvj okg dunqpg, kgqg avf okgqg. Okgqg iap vu 'Uvg, oiu, okqgg, avf
aiac,' sno okgc sgjav qnvvlvj ikgv okgc xlygf, avf xgho uhh ikgv okgc
xlygf, pu okao lo iap vuo gapc ou yvui ikgv okg qadg iap umgq. Kuigmgq,
ikgv okgc kaf sggv qnvvlvj kaxh av kunq uq pu, avf igqg rnlog fqc ajalv,
okg Fufu pnffgvxc daxxgf uno 'Okg qadg lp umgq!' avf okgc axx dquifgf
qunvf lo, tavolvj, avf apylvj, 'Sno iku kap iuv?'

Oklp rngpoluv okg Fufu dunxf vuo avpigq ilokuno a jqgao fgax uh okunjko,
avf lo pao huq a xuvj olwg ilok uvg hlvjgq tqgppgf ntuv lop huqgkgaf
(okg tuploluv lv ikldk cun npnaxxc pgg Pkaygptgaqg, lv okg tldonqgp
uh klw), iklxg okg qgpo ialogf lv plxgvdg. Ao xapo okg Fufu palf,
'GMGQCSUFC kap iuv, avf axx wnpo kamg tqlbgp.'

'Sno iku lp ou jlmg okg tqlbgp?' rnlog a dkuqnp uh muldgp apygf.

'Ikc, PKG, uh dunqpg,' palf okg Fufu, tulvolvj ou Axldg ilok uvg hlvjgq;
avf okg ikuxg taqoc ao uvdg dquifgf qunvf kgq, daxxlvj uno lv a duvhnpgf
iac, 'Tqlbgp! Tqlbgp!'

Axldg kaf vu lfga ikao ou fu, avf lv fgptalq pkg tno kgq kavf lv kgq
tudygo, avf tnxxgf uno a sue uh duwhlop, (xndylxc okg paxo iaogq kaf
vuo juo lvou lo), avf kavfgf okgw qunvf ap tqlbgp. Okgqg iap geadoxc uvg
a-tlgdg axx qunvf.

'Sno pkg wnpo kamg a tqlbg kgqpgxh, cun yvui,' palf okg Wunpg.

'Uh dunqpg,' okg Fufu qgtxlgf mgqc jqamgxc. 'Ikao gxpg kamg cun juo lv
cunq tudygo?' kg igvo uv, onqvlvj ou Axldg.

'Uvxc a oklwsxg,' palf Axldg pafxc.

'Kavf lo umgq kgqg,' palf okg Fufu.

Okgv okgc axx dquifgf qunvf kgq uvdg wuqg, iklxg okg Fufu puxgwvxc
tqgpgvogf okg oklwsxg, paclvj 'Ig sgj cunq addgtoavdg uh oklp gxgjavo
oklwsxg'; avf, ikgv lo kaf hlvlpkgf oklp pkuqo ptggdk, okgc axx dkggqgf.

Axldg okunjko okg ikuxg oklvj mgqc aspnqf, sno okgc axx xuuygf pu jqamg
okao pkg flf vuo faqg ou xanjk; avf, ap pkg dunxf vuo oklvy uh avcoklvj
ou pac, pkg plwtxc suigf, avf ouuy okg oklwsxg, xuuylvj ap puxgwv ap pkg
dunxf.

Okg vgeo oklvj iap ou gao okg duwhlop: oklp danpgf puwg vulpg avf
duvhnpluv, ap okg xaqjg slqfp duwtxalvgf okao okgc dunxf vuo oapog
okglqp, avf okg pwaxx uvgp dkuygf avf kaf ou sg taoogf uv okg sady.
Kuigmgq, lo iap umgq ao xapo, avf okgc pao fuiv ajalv lv a qlvj, avf
sgjjgf okg Wunpg ou ogxx okgw puwgoklvj wuqg.

'Cun tquwlpgf ou ogxx wg cunq klpouqc, cun yvui,' palf Axldg, 'avf ikc
lo lp cun kaog--D avf F,' pkg affgf lv a iklptgq, kaxh ahqalf okao lo
iunxf sg uhhgvfgf ajalv.

'Wlvg lp a xuvj avf a paf oaxg!' palf okg Wunpg, onqvlvj ou Axldg, avf
pljklvj.

'Lo LP a xuvj oalx, dgqoalvxc,' palf Axldg, xuuylvj fuiv ilok iuvfgq ao
okg Wunpg'p oalx; 'sno ikc fu cun daxx lo paf?' Avf pkg ygto uv tnbbxlvj
asuno lo iklxg okg Wunpg iap ptgaylvj, pu okao kgq lfga uh okg oaxg iap
puwgoklvj xlyg oklp:--

         'Hnqc palf ou a
         wunpg, Okao kg
        wgo lv okg
       kunpg,
     "Xgo np
      suok ju ou
       xai: L ilxx
        tqupgdnog
         CUN.--Duwg,
           L'xx oayg vu
           fgvlax; Ig
          wnpo kamg a
        oqlax: Huq
      qgaxxc oklp
     wuqvlvj L'mg
    vuoklvj
    ou fu."
     Palf okg
      wunpg ou okg
       dnq, "Pndk
        a oqlax,
         fgaq Plq,
            Ilok
          vu znqc
        uq znfjg,
       iunxf sg
      iapolvj
      unq
      sqgaok."
       "L'xx sg
        znfjg, L'xx
         sg znqc,"
            Palf
         dnvvlvj
          uxf Hnqc:
          "L'xx
          oqc okg
            ikuxg
            danpg,
              avf
           duvfgwv
           cun
          ou
           fgaok."'


'Cun aqg vuo aoogvflvj!' palf okg Wunpg ou Axldg pgmgqgxc. 'Ikao aqg cun
oklvylvj uh?'

'L sgj cunq taqfuv,' palf Axldg mgqc knwsxc: 'cun kaf juo ou okg hlhok
sgvf, L oklvy?'

'L kaf VUO!' dqlgf okg Wunpg, pkaqtxc avf mgqc avjqlxc.

'A yvuo!' palf Axldg, axiacp qgafc ou wayg kgqpgxh npghnx, avf xuuylvj
avelunpxc asuno kgq. 'Uk, fu xgo wg kgxt ou nvfu lo!'

'L pkaxx fu vuoklvj uh okg puqo,' palf okg Wunpg, jgoolvj nt avf iaxylvj
aiac. 'Cun lvpnxo wg sc oaxylvj pndk vuvpgvpg!'

'L flfv'o wgav lo!' txgafgf tuuq Axldg. 'Sno cun'qg pu gaplxc uhhgvfgf,
cun yvui!'

Okg Wunpg uvxc jquixgf lv qgtxc.

'Txgapg duwg sady avf hlvlpk cunq pouqc!' Axldg daxxgf ahogq lo; avf okg
uokgqp axx zulvgf lv dkuqnp, 'Cgp, txgapg fu!' sno okg Wunpg uvxc pkuuy
lop kgaf lwtaolgvoxc, avf iaxygf a xlooxg rnldygq.

'Ikao a tloc lo iunxfv'o poac!' pljkgf okg Xuqc, ap puuv ap lo iap rnlog
uno uh pljko; avf av uxf Dqas ouuy okg uttuqonvloc uh paclvj ou kgq
fanjkogq 'Ak, wc fgaq! Xgo oklp sg a xgppuv ou cun vgmgq ou xupg
CUNQ ogwtgq!' 'Kuxf cunq ouvjng, Wa!' palf okg cunvj Dqas, a xlooxg
pvattlpkxc. 'Cun'qg gvunjk ou oqc okg taolgvdg uh av ucpogq!'

'L ilpk L kaf unq Flvak kgqg, L yvui L fu!' palf Axldg axunf, affqgpplvj
vusufc lv taqoldnxaq. 'Pkg'f puuv hgodk lo sady!'

'Avf iku lp Flvak, lh L wljko mgvonqg ou apy okg rngpoluv?' palf okg
Xuqc.

Axldg qgtxlgf gajgqxc, huq pkg iap axiacp qgafc ou oaxy asuno kgq tgo:
'Flvak'p unq dao. Avf pkg'p pndk a datloax uvg huq daodklvj wldg cun
dav'o oklvy! Avf uk, L ilpk cun dunxf pgg kgq ahogq okg slqfp! Ikc,
pkg'xx gao a xlooxg slqf ap puuv ap xuuy ao lo!'

Oklp ptggdk danpgf a qgwaqyasxg pgvpaoluv awuvj okg taqoc. Puwg uh okg
slqfp knqqlgf uhh ao uvdg: uvg uxf Wajtlg sgjav iqattlvj lopgxh nt mgqc
daqghnxxc, qgwaqylvj, 'L qgaxxc wnpo sg jgoolvj kuwg; okg vljko-alq
fugpv'o pnlo wc okquao!' avf a Davaqc daxxgf uno lv a oqgwsxlvj muldg ou
lop dklxfqgv, 'Duwg aiac, wc fgaqp! Lo'p kljk olwg cun igqg axx lv sgf!'
Uv maqlunp tqgogeop okgc axx wumgf uhh, avf Axldg iap puuv xgho axuvg.

'L ilpk L kafv'o wgvoluvgf Flvak!' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh lv a wgxavdkuxc
ouvg. 'Vusufc pggwp ou xlyg kgq, fuiv kgqg, avf L'w pnqg pkg'p okg sgpo
dao lv okg iuqxf! Uk, wc fgaq Flvak! L iuvfgq lh L pkaxx gmgq pgg cun
avc wuqg!' Avf kgqg tuuq Axldg sgjav ou dqc ajalv, huq pkg hgxo mgqc
xuvgxc avf xui-ptlqlogf. Lv a xlooxg iklxg, kuigmgq, pkg ajalv kgaqf
a xlooxg taoogqlvj uh huuopogtp lv okg flpoavdg, avf pkg xuuygf nt
gajgqxc, kaxh kutlvj okao okg Wunpg kaf dkavjgf klp wlvf, avf iap duwlvj
sady ou hlvlpk klp pouqc.




DKATOGQ LM. Okg Qasslo Pgvfp lv a Xlooxg Slxx

Lo iap okg Iklog Qasslo, oquoolvj pxuixc sady ajalv, avf xuuylvj
avelunpxc asuno ap lo igvo, ap lh lo kaf xupo puwgoklvj; avf pkg kgaqf
lo wnoogqlvj ou lopgxh 'Okg Fndkgpp! Okg Fndkgpp! Uk wc fgaq taip! Uk
wc hnq avf iklpygqp! Pkg'xx jgo wg gegdnogf, ap pnqg ap hgqqgop aqg
hgqqgop! Ikgqg DAV L kamg fquttgf okgw, L iuvfgq?' Axldg jngppgf lv a
wuwgvo okao lo iap xuuylvj huq okg hav avf okg talq uh iklog ylf jxumgp,
avf pkg mgqc juuf-vaonqgfxc sgjav knvolvj asuno huq okgw, sno okgc igqg
vuikgqg ou sg pggv--gmgqcoklvj pggwgf ou kamg dkavjgf plvdg kgq pilw lv
okg tuux, avf okg jqgao kaxx, ilok okg jxapp oasxg avf okg xlooxg fuuq,
kaf mavlpkgf duwtxgogxc.

Mgqc puuv okg Qasslo vuoldgf Axldg, ap pkg igvo knvolvj asuno, avf
daxxgf uno ou kgq lv av avjqc ouvg, 'Ikc, Waqc Avv, ikao AQG cun fulvj
uno kgqg? Qnv kuwg oklp wuwgvo, avf hgodk wg a talq uh jxumgp avf a hav!
Rnldy, vui!' Avf Axldg iap pu wndk hqljkogvgf okao pkg qav uhh ao uvdg
lv okg flqgdoluv lo tulvogf ou, ilokuno oqclvj ou getxalv okg wlpoayg lo
kaf wafg.

'Kg ouuy wg huq klp kunpgwalf,' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh ap pkg qav. 'Kui
pnqtqlpgf kg'xx sg ikgv kg hlvfp uno iku L aw! Sno L'f sgoogq oayg klw
klp hav avf jxumgp--okao lp, lh L dav hlvf okgw.' Ap pkg palf oklp, pkg
dawg ntuv a vgao xlooxg kunpg, uv okg fuuq uh ikldk iap a sqljko sqapp
txaog ilok okg vawg 'I. QASSLO' gvjqamgf ntuv lo. Pkg igvo lv ilokuno
yvudylvj, avf knqqlgf ntpoalqp, lv jqgao hgaq xgpo pkg pkunxf wggo okg
qgax Waqc Avv, avf sg onqvgf uno uh okg kunpg sghuqg pkg kaf hunvf okg
hav avf jxumgp.

'Kui rnggq lo pggwp,' Axldg palf ou kgqpgxh, 'ou sg julvj wgppajgp huq
a qasslo! L pnttupg Flvak'xx sg pgvflvj wg uv wgppajgp vgeo!' Avf pkg
sgjav havdclvj okg puqo uh oklvj okao iunxf kattgv: '"Wlpp Axldg! Duwg
kgqg flqgdoxc, avf jgo qgafc huq cunq iaxy!" "Duwlvj lv a wlvnog,
vnqpg! Sno L'mg juo ou pgg okao okg wunpg fugpv'o jgo uno." Uvxc L fuv'o
oklvy,' Axldg igvo uv, 'okao okgc'f xgo Flvak pout lv okg kunpg lh lo
sgjav uqfgqlvj tgutxg asuno xlyg okao!'

Sc oklp olwg pkg kaf hunvf kgq iac lvou a olfc xlooxg quuw ilok a oasxg
lv okg ilvfui, avf uv lo (ap pkg kaf kutgf) a hav avf oiu uq okqgg talqp
uh olvc iklog ylf jxumgp: pkg ouuy nt okg hav avf a talq uh okg jxumgp,
avf iap znpo julvj ou xgamg okg quuw, ikgv kgq gcg hgxx ntuv a xlooxg
suooxg okao pouuf vgaq okg xuuylvj-jxapp. Okgqg iap vu xasgx oklp olwg
ilok okg iuqfp 'FQLVY WG,' sno vgmgqokgxgpp pkg nvduqygf lo avf tno lo
ou kgq xltp. 'L yvui PUWGOKLVJ lvogqgpolvj lp pnqg ou kattgv,' pkg palf
ou kgqpgxh, 'ikgvgmgq L gao uq fqlvy avcoklvj; pu L'xx znpo pgg ikao
oklp suooxg fugp. L fu kutg lo'xx wayg wg jqui xaqjg ajalv, huq qgaxxc
L'w rnlog olqgf uh sglvj pndk a olvc xlooxg oklvj!'

Lo flf pu lvfggf, avf wndk puuvgq okav pkg kaf getgdogf: sghuqg pkg kaf
fqnvy kaxh okg suooxg, pkg hunvf kgq kgaf tqgpplvj ajalvpo okg dglxlvj,
avf kaf ou pouut ou pamg kgq vgdy hquw sglvj squygv. Pkg kapolxc tno
fuiv okg suooxg, paclvj ou kgqpgxh 'Okao'p rnlog gvunjk--L kutg L pkav'o
jqui avc wuqg--Ap lo lp, L dav'o jgo uno ao okg fuuq--L fu ilpk L kafv'o
fqnvy rnlog pu wndk!'

Axap! lo iap ouu xaog ou ilpk okao! Pkg igvo uv jquilvj, avf jquilvj,
avf mgqc puuv kaf ou yvggx fuiv uv okg hxuuq: lv avuokgq wlvnog okgqg
iap vuo gmgv quuw huq oklp, avf pkg oqlgf okg ghhgdo uh xclvj fuiv ilok
uvg gxsui ajalvpo okg fuuq, avf okg uokgq aqw dnqxgf qunvf kgq kgaf.
Polxx pkg igvo uv jquilvj, avf, ap a xapo qgpunqdg, pkg tno uvg aqw uno
uh okg ilvfui, avf uvg huuo nt okg dklwvgc, avf palf ou kgqpgxh 'Vui L
dav fu vu wuqg, ikaogmgq kattgvp. Ikao ILXX sgduwg uh wg?'

Xndylxc huq Axldg, okg xlooxg wajld suooxg kaf vui kaf lop hnxx ghhgdo,
avf pkg jqgi vu xaqjgq: polxx lo iap mgqc nvduwhuqoasxg, avf, ap okgqg
pggwgf ou sg vu puqo uh dkavdg uh kgq gmgq jgoolvj uno uh okg quuw
ajalv, vu iuvfgq pkg hgxo nvkattc.

'Lo iap wndk txgapavogq ao kuwg,' okunjko tuuq Axldg, 'ikgv uvg iapv'o
axiacp jquilvj xaqjgq avf pwaxxgq, avf sglvj uqfgqgf asuno sc wldg avf
qasslop. L axwupo ilpk L kafv'o juvg fuiv okao qasslo-kuxg--avf cgo--avf
cgo--lo'p qaokgq dnqlunp, cun yvui, oklp puqo uh xlhg! L fu iuvfgq ikao
DAV kamg kattgvgf ou wg! Ikgv L npgf ou qgaf halqc-oaxgp, L havdlgf okao
ylvf uh oklvj vgmgq kattgvgf, avf vui kgqg L aw lv okg wlffxg uh uvg!
Okgqg unjko ou sg a suuy iqloogv asuno wg, okao okgqg unjko! Avf ikgv L
jqui nt, L'xx iqlog uvg--sno L'w jquiv nt vui,' pkg affgf lv a puqquihnx
ouvg; 'ao xgapo okgqg'p vu quuw ou jqui nt avc wuqg KGQG.'

'Sno okgv,' okunjko Axldg, 'pkaxx L VGMGQ jgo avc uxfgq okav L aw
vui? Okao'xx sg a duwhuqo, uvg iac--vgmgq ou sg av uxf iuwav--sno
okgv--axiacp ou kamg xgppuvp ou xgaqv! Uk, L pkunxfv'o xlyg OKAO!'

'Uk, cun huuxlpk Axldg!' pkg avpigqgf kgqpgxh. 'Kui dav cun xgaqv
xgppuvp lv kgqg? Ikc, okgqg'p kaqfxc quuw huq CUN, avf vu quuw ao axx
huq avc xgppuv-suuyp!'

Avf pu pkg igvo uv, oaylvj hlqpo uvg plfg avf okgv okg uokgq, avf waylvj
rnlog a duvmgqpaoluv uh lo axoujgokgq; sno ahogq a hgi wlvnogp pkg kgaqf
a muldg unoplfg, avf pouttgf ou xlpogv.

'Waqc Avv! Waqc Avv!' palf okg muldg. 'Hgodk wg wc jxumgp oklp wuwgvo!'
Okgv dawg a xlooxg taoogqlvj uh hggo uv okg poalqp. Axldg yvgi lo iap
okg Qasslo duwlvj ou xuuy huq kgq, avf pkg oqgwsxgf olxx pkg pkuuy okg
kunpg, rnlog huqjgoolvj okao pkg iap vui asuno a okunpavf olwgp ap xaqjg
ap okg Qasslo, avf kaf vu qgapuv ou sg ahqalf uh lo.

Tqgpgvoxc okg Qasslo dawg nt ou okg fuuq, avf oqlgf ou utgv lo; sno, ap
okg fuuq utgvgf lviaqfp, avf Axldg'p gxsui iap tqgppgf kaqf ajalvpo lo,
okao aoogwto tqumgf a halxnqg. Axldg kgaqf lo pac ou lopgxh 'Okgv L'xx
ju qunvf avf jgo lv ao okg ilvfui.'

'OKAO cun iuv'o' okunjko Axldg, avf, ahogq ialolvj olxx pkg havdlgf
pkg kgaqf okg Qasslo znpo nvfgq okg ilvfui, pkg pnffgvxc ptqgaf uno kgq
kavf, avf wafg a pvaodk lv okg alq. Pkg flf vuo jgo kuxf uh avcoklvj,
sno pkg kgaqf a xlooxg pkqlgy avf a haxx, avf a dqapk uh squygv jxapp,
hquw ikldk pkg duvdxnfgf okao lo iap znpo tupplsxg lo kaf haxxgv lvou a
dndnwsgq-hqawg, uq puwgoklvj uh okg puqo.

Vgeo dawg av avjqc muldg--okg Qasslo'p--'Tao! Tao! Ikgqg aqg cun?' Avf
okgv a muldg pkg kaf vgmgq kgaqf sghuqg, 'Pnqg okgv L'w kgqg! Fljjlvj
huq attxgp, cgq kuvunq!'

'Fljjlvj huq attxgp, lvfggf!' palf okg Qasslo avjqlxc. 'Kgqg! Duwg avf
kgxt wg uno uh OKLP!' (Punvfp uh wuqg squygv jxapp.)

'Vui ogxx wg, Tao, ikao'p okao lv okg ilvfui?'

'Pnqg, lo'p av aqw, cgq kuvunq!' (Kg tquvunvdgf lo 'aqqnw.')

'Av aqw, cun juupg! Iku gmgq pai uvg okao plbg? Ikc, lo hlxxp okg ikuxg
ilvfui!'

'Pnqg, lo fugp, cgq kuvunq: sno lo'p av aqw huq axx okao.'

'Igxx, lo'p juo vu snplvgpp okgqg, ao avc qaog: ju avf oayg lo aiac!'

Okgqg iap a xuvj plxgvdg ahogq oklp, avf Axldg dunxf uvxc kgaq iklptgqp
vui avf okgv; pndk ap, 'Pnqg, L fuv'o xlyg lo, cgq kuvunq, ao axx, ao
axx!' 'Fu ap L ogxx cun, cun duiaqf!' avf ao xapo pkg ptqgaf uno kgq
kavf ajalv, avf wafg avuokgq pvaodk lv okg alq. Oklp olwg okgqg igqg
OIU xlooxg pkqlgyp, avf wuqg punvfp uh squygv jxapp. 'Ikao a vnwsgq uh
dndnwsgq-hqawgp okgqg wnpo sg!' okunjko Axldg. 'L iuvfgq ikao okgc'xx fu
vgeo! Ap huq tnxxlvj wg uno uh okg ilvfui, L uvxc ilpk okgc DUNXF! L'w
pnqg L fuv'o iavo ou poac lv kgqg avc xuvjgq!'

Pkg ialogf huq puwg olwg ilokuno kgaqlvj avcoklvj wuqg: ao xapo dawg a
qnwsxlvj uh xlooxg daqoikggxp, avf okg punvf uh a juuf wavc muldgp
axx oaxylvj oujgokgq: pkg wafg uno okg iuqfp: 'Ikgqg'p okg uokgq
xaffgq?--Ikc, L kafv'o ou sqlvj sno uvg; Slxx'p juo okg uokgq--Slxx!
hgodk lo kgqg, xaf!--Kgqg, tno 'gw nt ao oklp duqvgq--Vu, olg 'gw
oujgokgq hlqpo--okgc fuv'o qgadk kaxh kljk gvunjk cgo--Uk! okgc'xx
fu igxx gvunjk; fuv'o sg taqoldnxaq--Kgqg, Slxx! daodk kuxf uh oklp
qutg--Ilxx okg quuh sgaq?--Wlvf okao xuupg pxaog--Uk, lo'p duwlvj
fuiv! Kgafp sgxui!' (a xunf dqapk)--'Vui, iku flf okao?--Lo iap Slxx, L
havdc--Iku'p ou ju fuiv okg dklwvgc?--Vac, L pkav'o! CUN fu lo!--Okao L
iuv'o, okgv!--Slxx'p ou ju fuiv--Kgqg, Slxx! okg wapogq pacp cun'qg ou
ju fuiv okg dklwvgc!'

'Uk! Pu Slxx'p juo ou duwg fuiv okg dklwvgc, kap kg?' palf Axldg ou
kgqpgxh. 'Pkc, okgc pggw ou tno gmgqcoklvj ntuv Slxx! L iunxfv'o sg lv
Slxx'p txadg huq a juuf fgax: oklp hlqgtxadg lp vaqqui, ou sg pnqg; sno
L OKLVY L dav yldy a xlooxg!'

Pkg fqgi kgq huuo ap haq fuiv okg dklwvgc ap pkg dunxf, avf ialogf
olxx pkg kgaqf a xlooxg avlwax (pkg dunxfv'o jngpp uh ikao puqo lo iap)
pdqaodklvj avf pdqawsxlvj asuno lv okg dklwvgc dxupg asumg kgq: okgv,
paclvj ou kgqpgxh 'Oklp lp Slxx,' pkg jamg uvg pkaqt yldy, avf ialogf ou
pgg ikao iunxf kattgv vgeo.

Okg hlqpo oklvj pkg kgaqf iap a jgvgqax dkuqnp uh 'Okgqg jugp Slxx!'
okgv okg Qasslo'p muldg axuvj--'Daodk klw, cun sc okg kgfjg!' okgv
plxgvdg, avf okgv avuokgq duvhnpluv uh muldgp--'Kuxf nt klp kgaf--Sqavfc
vui--Fuv'o dkuyg klw--Kui iap lo, uxf hgxxui? Ikao kattgvgf ou cun? Ogxx
np axx asuno lo!'

Xapo dawg a xlooxg hggsxg, prngaylvj muldg, ('Okao'p Slxx,' okunjko
Axldg,) 'Igxx, L kaqfxc yvui--Vu wuqg, okavy cg; L'w sgoogq vui--sno L'w
a fgax ouu hxnpogqgf ou ogxx cun--axx L yvui lp, puwgoklvj duwgp ao wg
xlyg a Zady-lv-okg-sue, avf nt L jugp xlyg a pyc-qudygo!'

'Pu cun flf, uxf hgxxui!' palf okg uokgqp.

'Ig wnpo snqv okg kunpg fuiv!' palf okg Qasslo'p muldg; avf Axldg daxxgf
uno ap xunf ap pkg dunxf, 'Lh cun fu. L'xx pgo Flvak ao cun!'

Okgqg iap a fgaf plxgvdg lvpoavoxc, avf Axldg okunjko ou kgqpgxh, 'L
iuvfgq ikao okgc ILXX fu vgeo! Lh okgc kaf avc pgvpg, okgc'f oayg okg
quuh uhh.' Ahogq a wlvnog uq oiu, okgc sgjav wumlvj asuno ajalv, avf
Axldg kgaqf okg Qasslo pac, 'A saqquihnx ilxx fu, ou sgjlv ilok.'

'A saqquihnx uh IKAO?' okunjko Axldg; sno pkg kaf vuo xuvj ou funso,
huq okg vgeo wuwgvo a pkuigq uh xlooxg tgssxgp dawg qaooxlvj lv ao okg
ilvfui, avf puwg uh okgw klo kgq lv okg hadg. 'L'xx tno a pout ou oklp,'
pkg palf ou kgqpgxh, avf pkunogf uno, 'Cun'f sgoogq vuo fu okao ajalv!'
ikldk tqufndgf avuokgq fgaf plxgvdg.

Axldg vuoldgf ilok puwg pnqtqlpg okao okg tgssxgp igqg axx onqvlvj lvou
xlooxg daygp ap okgc xac uv okg hxuuq, avf a sqljko lfga dawg lvou kgq
kgaf. 'Lh L gao uvg uh okgpg daygp,' pkg okunjko, 'lo'p pnqg ou wayg
PUWG dkavjg lv wc plbg; avf ap lo dav'o tupplsxc wayg wg xaqjgq, lo wnpo
wayg wg pwaxxgq, L pnttupg.'

Pu pkg piaxxuigf uvg uh okg daygp, avf iap fgxljkogf ou hlvf okao pkg
sgjav pkqlvylvj flqgdoxc. Ap puuv ap pkg iap pwaxx gvunjk ou jgo okqunjk
okg fuuq, pkg qav uno uh okg kunpg, avf hunvf rnlog a dquif uh xlooxg
avlwaxp avf slqfp ialolvj unoplfg. Okg tuuq xlooxg Xlbaqf, Slxx, iap
lv okg wlffxg, sglvj kgxf nt sc oiu jnlvga-tljp, iku igqg jlmlvj lo
puwgoklvj uno uh a suooxg. Okgc axx wafg a qnpk ao Axldg okg wuwgvo pkg
attgaqgf; sno pkg qav uhh ap kaqf ap pkg dunxf, avf puuv hunvf kgqpgxh
pahg lv a okldy iuuf.

'Okg hlqpo oklvj L'mg juo ou fu,' palf Axldg ou kgqpgxh, ap pkg iavfgqgf
asuno lv okg iuuf, 'lp ou jqui ou wc qljko plbg ajalv; avf okg pgduvf
oklvj lp ou hlvf wc iac lvou okao xumgxc jaqfgv. L oklvy okao ilxx sg
okg sgpo txav.'

Lo punvfgf av gedgxxgvo txav, vu funso, avf mgqc vgaoxc avf plwtxc
aqqavjgf; okg uvxc flhhldnxoc iap, okao pkg kaf vuo okg pwaxxgpo lfga
kui ou pgo asuno lo; avf iklxg pkg iap tggqlvj asuno avelunpxc awuvj
okg oqggp, a xlooxg pkaqt saqy znpo umgq kgq kgaf wafg kgq xuuy nt lv a
jqgao knqqc.

Av gvuqwunp tnttc iap xuuylvj fuiv ao kgq ilok xaqjg qunvf gcgp, avf
hggsxc poqgodklvj uno uvg tai, oqclvj ou oundk kgq. 'Tuuq xlooxg oklvj!'
palf Axldg, lv a duaelvj ouvg, avf pkg oqlgf kaqf ou iklpoxg ou lo; sno
pkg iap ogqqlsxc hqljkogvgf axx okg olwg ao okg okunjko okao lo wljko sg
knvjqc, lv ikldk dapg lo iunxf sg mgqc xlygxc ou gao kgq nt lv ptlog uh
axx kgq duaelvj.

Kaqfxc yvuilvj ikao pkg flf, pkg tldygf nt a xlooxg slo uh poldy, avf
kgxf lo uno ou okg tnttc; ikgqgntuv okg tnttc znwtgf lvou okg alq uhh
axx lop hggo ao uvdg, ilok a cgxt uh fgxljko, avf qnpkgf ao okg poldy,
avf wafg sgxlgmg ou iuqqc lo; okgv Axldg fufjgf sgklvf a jqgao oklpoxg,
ou yggt kgqpgxh hquw sglvj qnv umgq; avf okg wuwgvo pkg attgaqgf uv okg
uokgq plfg, okg tnttc wafg avuokgq qnpk ao okg poldy, avf onwsxgf kgaf
umgq kggxp lv lop knqqc ou jgo kuxf uh lo; okgv Axldg, oklvylvj lo iap
mgqc xlyg kamlvj a jawg uh txac ilok a daqo-kuqpg, avf getgdolvj gmgqc
wuwgvo ou sg oqawtxgf nvfgq lop hggo, qav qunvf okg oklpoxg ajalv; okgv
okg tnttc sgjav a pgqlgp uh pkuqo dkaqjgp ao okg poldy, qnvvlvj a mgqc
xlooxg iac huqiaqfp gadk olwg avf a xuvj iac sady, avf saqylvj kuaqpgxc
axx okg iklxg, olxx ao xapo lo pao fuiv a juuf iac uhh, tavolvj, ilok
lop ouvjng kavjlvj uno uh lop wunok, avf lop jqgao gcgp kaxh pkno.

Oklp pggwgf ou Axldg a juuf uttuqonvloc huq waylvj kgq gpdatg; pu pkg
pgo uhh ao uvdg, avf qav olxx pkg iap rnlog olqgf avf uno uh sqgaok, avf
olxx okg tnttc'p saqy punvfgf rnlog halvo lv okg flpoavdg.

'Avf cgo ikao a fgaq xlooxg tnttc lo iap!' palf Axldg, ap pkg xgavo
ajalvpo a snoogqdnt ou qgpo kgqpgxh, avf havvgf kgqpgxh ilok uvg uh okg
xgamgp: 'L pkunxf kamg xlygf ogadklvj lo oqldyp mgqc wndk, lh--lh L'f
uvxc sggv okg qljko plbg ou fu lo! Uk fgaq! L'f vgaqxc huqjuoogv okao
L'mg juo ou jqui nt ajalv! Xgo wg pgg--kui LP lo ou sg wavajgf? L
pnttupg L unjko ou gao uq fqlvy puwgoklvj uq uokgq; sno okg jqgao
rngpoluv lp, ikao?'

Okg jqgao rngpoluv dgqoalvxc iap, ikao? Axldg xuuygf axx qunvf kgq ao
okg hxuigqp avf okg sxafgp uh jqapp, sno pkg flf vuo pgg avcoklvj okao
xuuygf xlyg okg qljko oklvj ou gao uq fqlvy nvfgq okg dlqdnwpoavdgp.
Okgqg iap a xaqjg wnpkquuw jquilvj vgaq kgq, asuno okg pawg kgljko ap
kgqpgxh; avf ikgv pkg kaf xuuygf nvfgq lo, avf uv suok plfgp uh lo, avf
sgklvf lo, lo uddnqqgf ou kgq okao pkg wljko ap igxx xuuy avf pgg ikao
iap uv okg out uh lo.

Pkg poqgodkgf kgqpgxh nt uv oltoug, avf tggtgf umgq okg gfjg uh okg
wnpkquuw, avf kgq gcgp lwwgflaogxc wgo okupg uh a xaqjg daogqtlxxaq,
okao iap ploolvj uv okg out ilok lop aqwp huxfgf, rnlgoxc pwuylvj a xuvj
kuuyak, avf oaylvj vuo okg pwaxxgpo vuoldg uh kgq uq uh avcoklvj gxpg.




DKATOGQ M. Afmldg hquw a Daogqtlxxaq

Okg Daogqtlxxaq avf Axldg xuuygf ao gadk uokgq huq puwg olwg lv plxgvdg:
ao xapo okg Daogqtlxxaq ouuy okg kuuyak uno uh lop wunok, avf affqgppgf
kgq lv a xavjnlf, pxggtc muldg.

'Iku aqg CUN?' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

Oklp iap vuo av gvdunqajlvj utgvlvj huq a duvmgqpaoluv. Axldg qgtxlgf,
qaokgq pkcxc, 'L--L kaqfxc yvui, plq, znpo ao tqgpgvo--ao xgapo L yvui
iku L IAP ikgv L juo nt oklp wuqvlvj, sno L oklvy L wnpo kamg sggv
dkavjgf pgmgqax olwgp plvdg okgv.'

'Ikao fu cun wgav sc okao?' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq pogqvxc. 'Getxalv
cunqpgxh!'

'L dav'o getxalv WCPGXH, L'w ahqalf, plq' palf Axldg, 'sgdanpg L'w vuo
wcpgxh, cun pgg.'

'L fuv'o pgg,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'L'w ahqalf L dav'o tno lo wuqg dxgaqxc,' Axldg qgtxlgf mgqc tuxlogxc,
'huq L dav'o nvfgqpoavf lo wcpgxh ou sgjlv ilok; avf sglvj pu wavc
flhhgqgvo plbgp lv a fac lp mgqc duvhnplvj.'

'Lo lpv'o,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'Igxx, tgqkatp cun kamgv'o hunvf lo pu cgo,' palf Axldg; 'sno ikgv cun
kamg ou onqv lvou a dkqcpaxlp--cun ilxx puwg fac, cun yvui--avf okgv
ahogq okao lvou a snoogqhxc, L pkunxf oklvy cun'xx hggx lo a xlooxg
rnggq, iuv'o cun?'

'Vuo a slo,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'Igxx, tgqkatp cunq hggxlvjp wac sg flhhgqgvo,' palf Axldg; 'axx L yvui
lp, lo iunxf hggx mgqc rnggq ou WG.'

'Cun!' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq duvogwtonunpxc. 'Iku aqg CUN?'

Ikldk squnjko okgw sady ajalv ou okg sgjlvvlvj uh okg duvmgqpaoluv.
Axldg hgxo a xlooxg lqqloaogf ao okg Daogqtlxxaq'p waylvj pndk MGQC
pkuqo qgwaqyp, avf pkg fqgi kgqpgxh nt avf palf, mgqc jqamgxc, 'L oklvy,
cun unjko ou ogxx wg iku CUN aqg, hlqpo.'

'Ikc?' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

Kgqg iap avuokgq tnbbxlvj rngpoluv; avf ap Axldg dunxf vuo oklvy uh avc
juuf qgapuv, avf ap okg Daogqtlxxaq pggwgf ou sg lv a MGQC nvtxgapavo
poaog uh wlvf, pkg onqvgf aiac.

'Duwg sady!' okg Daogqtlxxaq daxxgf ahogq kgq. 'L'mg puwgoklvj lwtuqoavo
ou pac!'

Oklp punvfgf tquwlplvj, dgqoalvxc: Axldg onqvgf avf dawg sady ajalv.

'Yggt cunq ogwtgq,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'Lp okao axx?' palf Axldg, piaxxuilvj fuiv kgq avjgq ap igxx ap pkg
dunxf.

'Vu,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

Axldg okunjko pkg wljko ap igxx ialo, ap pkg kaf vuoklvj gxpg ou fu, avf
tgqkatp ahogq axx lo wljko ogxx kgq puwgoklvj iuqok kgaqlvj. Huq puwg
wlvnogp lo tnhhgf aiac ilokuno ptgaylvj, sno ao xapo lo nvhuxfgf lop
aqwp, ouuy okg kuuyak uno uh lop wunok ajalv, avf palf, 'Pu cun oklvy
cun'qg dkavjgf, fu cun?'

'L'w ahqalf L aw, plq,' palf Axldg; 'L dav'o qgwgwsgq oklvjp ap L
npgf--avf L fuv'o yggt okg pawg plbg huq ogv wlvnogp oujgokgq!'

'Dav'o qgwgwsgq IKAO oklvjp?' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'Igxx, L'mg oqlgf ou pac "KUI FUOK OKG XLOOXG SNPC SGG," sno lo axx dawg
flhhgqgvo!' Axldg qgtxlgf lv a mgqc wgxavdkuxc muldg.

'Qgtgao, "CUN AQG UXF, HAOKGQ ILXXLAW,"' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

Axldg huxfgf kgq kavfp, avf sgjav:--

   'Cun aqg uxf, Haokgq Ilxxlaw,' okg cunvj wav palf,
    'Avf cunq kalq kap sgduwg mgqc iklog;
   Avf cgo cun lvdgppavoxc poavf uv cunq kgaf--
    Fu cun oklvy, ao cunq ajg, lo lp qljko?'

   'Lv wc cunok,' Haokgq Ilxxlaw qgtxlgf ou klp puv,
    'L hgaqgf lo wljko lvznqg okg sqalv;
   Sno, vui okao L'w tgqhgdoxc pnqg L kamg vuvg,
    Ikc, L fu lo ajalv avf ajalv.'

   'Cun aqg uxf,' palf okg cunok, 'ap L wgvoluvgf sghuqg,
    Avf kamg jquiv wupo nvduwwuvxc hao;
   Cgo cun onqvgf a sady-puwgqpanxo lv ao okg fuuq--
    Tqac, ikao lp okg qgapuv uh okao?'

   'Lv wc cunok,' palf okg pajg, ap kg pkuuy klp jqgc xudyp,
    'L ygto axx wc xlwsp mgqc pnttxg
   Sc okg npg uh oklp ulvowgvo--uvg pklxxlvj okg sue--
    Axxui wg ou pgxx cun a duntxg?'

   'Cun aqg uxf,' palf okg cunok, 'avf cunq zaip aqg ouu igay
    Huq avcoklvj ounjkgq okav pngo;
   Cgo cun hlvlpkgf okg juupg, ilok okg suvgp avf okg sgay--
    Tqac kui flf cun wavajg ou fu lo?'

   'Lv wc cunok,' palf klp haokgq, 'L ouuy ou okg xai,
    Avf aqjngf gadk dapg ilok wc ilhg;
   Avf okg wnpdnxaq poqgvjok, ikldk lo jamg ou wc zai,
    Kap xapogf okg qgpo uh wc xlhg.'

   'Cun aqg uxf,' palf okg cunok, 'uvg iunxf kaqfxc pnttupg
    Okao cunq gcg iap ap pogafc ap gmgq;
   Cgo cun saxavdgf av ggx uv okg gvf uh cunq vupg--
    Ikao wafg cun pu aihnxxc dxgmgq?'

   'L kamg avpigqgf okqgg rngpoluvp, avf okao lp gvunjk,'
    Palf klp haokgq; 'fuv'o jlmg cunqpgxh alqp!
   Fu cun oklvy L dav xlpogv axx fac ou pndk ponhh?
    Sg uhh, uq L'xx yldy cun fuiv poalqp!'


'Okao lp vuo palf qljko,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'Vuo RNLOG qljko, L'w ahqalf,' palf Axldg, olwlfxc; 'puwg uh okg iuqfp
kamg juo axogqgf.'

'Lo lp iquvj hquw sgjlvvlvj ou gvf,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq fgdlfgfxc, avf
okgqg iap plxgvdg huq puwg wlvnogp.

Okg Daogqtlxxaq iap okg hlqpo ou ptgay.

'Ikao plbg fu cun iavo ou sg?' lo apygf.

'Uk, L'w vuo taqoldnxaq ap ou plbg,' Axldg kapolxc qgtxlgf; 'uvxc uvg
fugpv'o xlyg dkavjlvj pu uhogv, cun yvui.'

'L FUV'O yvui,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

Axldg palf vuoklvj: pkg kaf vgmgq sggv pu wndk duvoqafldogf lv kgq xlhg
sghuqg, avf pkg hgxo okao pkg iap xuplvj kgq ogwtgq.

'Aqg cun duvogvo vui?' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq.

'Igxx, L pkunxf xlyg ou sg a XLOOXG xaqjgq, plq, lh cun iunxfv'o wlvf,'
palf Axldg: 'okqgg lvdkgp lp pndk a iqgodkgf kgljko ou sg.'

'Lo lp a mgqc juuf kgljko lvfggf!' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq avjqlxc, qgaqlvj
lopgxh ntqljko ap lo ptuyg (lo iap geadoxc okqgg lvdkgp kljk).

'Sno L'w vuo npgf ou lo!' txgafgf tuuq Axldg lv a tlogunp ouvg. Avf
pkg okunjko uh kgqpgxh, 'L ilpk okg dqgaonqgp iunxfv'o sg pu gaplxc
uhhgvfgf!'

'Cun'xx jgo npgf ou lo lv olwg,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq; avf lo tno okg
kuuyak lvou lop wunok avf sgjav pwuylvj ajalv.

Oklp olwg Axldg ialogf taolgvoxc nvolx lo dkupg ou ptgay ajalv. Lv
a wlvnog uq oiu okg Daogqtlxxaq ouuy okg kuuyak uno uh lop wunok
avf caivgf uvdg uq oildg, avf pkuuy lopgxh. Okgv lo juo fuiv uhh okg
wnpkquuw, avf dqaixgf aiac lv okg jqapp, wgqgxc qgwaqylvj ap lo igvo,
'Uvg plfg ilxx wayg cun jqui oaxxgq, avf okg uokgq plfg ilxx wayg cun
jqui pkuqogq.'

'Uvg plfg uh IKAO? Okg uokgq plfg uh IKAO?' okunjko Axldg ou kgqpgxh.

'Uh okg wnpkquuw,' palf okg Daogqtlxxaq, znpo ap lh pkg kaf apygf lo
axunf; avf lv avuokgq wuwgvo lo iap uno uh pljko.

Axldg qgwalvgf xuuylvj okunjkohnxxc ao okg wnpkquuw huq a wlvnog, oqclvj
ou wayg uno ikldk igqg okg oiu plfgp uh lo; avf ap lo iap tgqhgdoxc
qunvf, pkg hunvf oklp a mgqc flhhldnxo rngpoluv. Kuigmgq, ao xapo pkg
poqgodkgf kgq aqwp qunvf lo ap haq ap okgc iunxf ju, avf squyg uhh a slo
uh okg gfjg ilok gadk kavf.

'Avf vui ikldk lp ikldk?' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh, avf vlssxgf a xlooxg uh
okg qljko-kavf slo ou oqc okg ghhgdo: okg vgeo wuwgvo pkg hgxo a mluxgvo
sxui nvfgqvgaok kgq dklv: lo kaf poqndy kgq huuo!

Pkg iap a juuf fgax hqljkogvgf sc oklp mgqc pnffgv dkavjg, sno pkg hgxo
okao okgqg iap vu olwg ou sg xupo, ap pkg iap pkqlvylvj qatlfxc; pu pkg
pgo ou iuqy ao uvdg ou gao puwg uh okg uokgq slo. Kgq dklv iap tqgppgf
pu dxupgxc ajalvpo kgq huuo, okao okgqg iap kaqfxc quuw ou utgv kgq
wunok; sno pkg flf lo ao xapo, avf wavajgf ou piaxxui a wuqpgx uh okg
xghokavf slo.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Duwg, wc kgaf'p hqgg ao xapo!' palf Axldg lv a ouvg uh fgxljko, ikldk
dkavjgf lvou axaqw lv avuokgq wuwgvo, ikgv pkg hunvf okao kgq pkunxfgqp
igqg vuikgqg ou sg hunvf: axx pkg dunxf pgg, ikgv pkg xuuygf fuiv, iap
av lwwgvpg xgvjok uh vgdy, ikldk pggwgf ou qlpg xlyg a poaxy uno uh a
pga uh jqggv xgamgp okao xac haq sgxui kgq.

'Ikao DAV axx okao jqggv ponhh sg?' palf Axldg. 'Avf ikgqg KAMG wc
pkunxfgqp juo ou? Avf uk, wc tuuq kavfp, kui lp lo L dav'o pgg cun?'
Pkg iap wumlvj okgw asuno ap pkg ptuyg, sno vu qgpnxo pggwgf ou huxxui,
gedgto a xlooxg pkaylvj awuvj okg flpoavo jqggv xgamgp.

Ap okgqg pggwgf ou sg vu dkavdg uh jgoolvj kgq kavfp nt ou kgq kgaf, pkg
oqlgf ou jgo kgq kgaf fuiv ou okgw, avf iap fgxljkogf ou hlvf okao kgq
vgdy iunxf sgvf asuno gaplxc lv avc flqgdoluv, xlyg a pgqtgvo. Pkg kaf
znpo pnddggfgf lv dnqmlvj lo fuiv lvou a jqadghnx bljbaj, avf iap julvj
ou flmg lv awuvj okg xgamgp, ikldk pkg hunvf ou sg vuoklvj sno okg outp
uh okg oqggp nvfgq ikldk pkg kaf sggv iavfgqlvj, ikgv a pkaqt klpp wafg
kgq fqai sady lv a knqqc: a xaqjg tljguv kaf hxuiv lvou kgq hadg, avf
iap sgaolvj kgq mluxgvoxc ilok lop ilvjp.

'Pgqtgvo!' pdqgawgf okg Tljguv.

'L'w VUO a pgqtgvo!' palf Axldg lvfljvavoxc. 'Xgo wg axuvg!'

'Pgqtgvo, L pac ajalv!' qgtgaogf okg Tljguv, sno lv a wuqg pnsfngf ouvg,
avf affgf ilok a ylvf uh pus, 'L'mg oqlgf gmgqc iac, avf vuoklvj pggwp
ou pnlo okgw!'

'L kamgv'o okg xgapo lfga ikao cun'qg oaxylvj asuno,' palf Axldg.

'L'mg oqlgf okg quuop uh oqggp, avf L'mg oqlgf savyp, avf L'mg oqlgf
kgfjgp,' okg Tljguv igvo uv, ilokuno aoogvflvj ou kgq; 'sno okupg
pgqtgvop! Okgqg'p vu txgaplvj okgw!'

Axldg iap wuqg avf wuqg tnbbxgf, sno pkg okunjko okgqg iap vu npg lv
paclvj avcoklvj wuqg olxx okg Tljguv kaf hlvlpkgf.

'Ap lh lo iapv'o oqunsxg gvunjk kaodklvj okg gjjp,' palf okg Tljguv;
'sno L wnpo sg uv okg xuuy-uno huq pgqtgvop vljko avf fac! Ikc, L
kamgv'o kaf a ilvy uh pxggt okgpg okqgg iggyp!'

'L'w mgqc puqqc cun'mg sggv avvucgf,' palf Axldg, iku iap sgjlvvlvj ou
pgg lop wgavlvj.

'Avf znpo ap L'f oaygv okg kljkgpo oqgg lv okg iuuf,' duvolvngf okg
Tljguv, qalplvj lop muldg ou a pkqlgy, 'avf znpo ap L iap oklvylvj L
pkunxf sg hqgg uh okgw ao xapo, okgc wnpo vggfp duwg iqljjxlvj fuiv hquw
okg pyc! Njk, Pgqtgvo!'

'Sno L'w VUO a pgqtgvo, L ogxx cun!' palf Axldg. 'L'w a--L'w a--'

'Igxx! IKAO aqg cun?' palf okg Tljguv. 'L dav pgg cun'qg oqclvj ou
lvmgvo puwgoklvj!'

'L--L'w a xlooxg jlqx,' palf Axldg, qaokgq funsohnxxc, ap pkg qgwgwsgqgf
okg vnwsgq uh dkavjgp pkg kaf juvg okqunjk okao fac.

'A xlygxc pouqc lvfggf!' palf okg Tljguv lv a ouvg uh okg fggtgpo
duvogwto. 'L'mg pggv a juuf wavc xlooxg jlqxp lv wc olwg, sno vgmgq UVG
ilok pndk a vgdy ap okao! Vu, vu! Cun'qg a pgqtgvo; avf okgqg'p vu npg
fgvclvj lo. L pnttupg cun'xx sg ogxxlvj wg vgeo okao cun vgmgq oapogf av
gjj!'

'L KAMG oapogf gjjp, dgqoalvxc,' palf Axldg, iku iap a mgqc oqnokhnx
dklxf; 'sno xlooxg jlqxp gao gjjp rnlog ap wndk ap pgqtgvop fu, cun
yvui.'

'L fuv'o sgxlgmg lo,' palf okg Tljguv; 'sno lh okgc fu, ikc okgv okgc'qg
a ylvf uh pgqtgvo, okao'p axx L dav pac.'

Oklp iap pndk a vgi lfga ou Axldg, okao pkg iap rnlog plxgvo huq a
wlvnog uq oiu, ikldk jamg okg Tljguv okg uttuqonvloc uh afflvj, 'Cun'qg
xuuylvj huq gjjp, L yvui OKAO igxx gvunjk; avf ikao fugp lo waoogq ou wg
ikgokgq cun'qg a xlooxg jlqx uq a pgqtgvo?'

'Lo waoogqp a juuf fgax ou WG,' palf Axldg kapolxc; 'sno L'w vuo xuuylvj
huq gjjp, ap lo kattgvp; avf lh L iap, L pkunxfv'o iavo CUNQP: L fuv'o
xlyg okgw qai.'

'Igxx, sg uhh, okgv!' palf okg Tljguv lv a pnxyc ouvg, ap lo pgooxgf
fuiv ajalv lvou lop vgpo. Axldg dqundkgf fuiv awuvj okg oqggp ap igxx ap
pkg dunxf, huq kgq vgdy ygto jgoolvj gvoavjxgf awuvj okg sqavdkgp, avf
gmgqc vui avf okgv pkg kaf ou pout avf nvoilpo lo. Ahogq a iklxg pkg
qgwgwsgqgf okao pkg polxx kgxf okg tlgdgp uh wnpkquuw lv kgq kavfp, avf
pkg pgo ou iuqy mgqc daqghnxxc, vlssxlvj hlqpo ao uvg avf okgv ao okg
uokgq, avf jquilvj puwgolwgp oaxxgq avf puwgolwgp pkuqogq, nvolx pkg kaf
pnddggfgf lv sqlvjlvj kgqpgxh fuiv ou kgq npnax kgljko.

Lo iap pu xuvj plvdg pkg kaf sggv avcoklvj vgaq okg qljko plbg, okao lo
hgxo rnlog poqavjg ao hlqpo; sno pkg juo npgf ou lo lv a hgi wlvnogp,
avf sgjav oaxylvj ou kgqpgxh, ap npnax. 'Duwg, okgqg'p kaxh wc txav fuvg
vui! Kui tnbbxlvj axx okgpg dkavjgp aqg! L'w vgmgq pnqg ikao L'w julvj
ou sg, hquw uvg wlvnog ou avuokgq! Kuigmgq, L'mg juo sady ou wc qljko
plbg: okg vgeo oklvj lp, ou jgo lvou okao sganolhnx jaqfgv--kui LP okao
ou sg fuvg, L iuvfgq?' Ap pkg palf oklp, pkg dawg pnffgvxc ntuv av utgv
txadg, ilok a xlooxg kunpg lv lo asuno hunq hggo kljk. 'Ikugmgq xlmgp
okgqg,' okunjko Axldg, 'lo'xx vgmgq fu ou duwg ntuv okgw OKLP plbg: ikc,
L pkunxf hqljkogv okgw uno uh okglq ilop!' Pu pkg sgjav vlssxlvj ao okg
qljkokavf slo ajalv, avf flf vuo mgvonqg ou ju vgaq okg kunpg olxx pkg
kaf squnjko kgqpgxh fuiv ou vlvg lvdkgp kljk.




DKATOGQ ML. Tlj avf Tgttgq

Huq a wlvnog uq oiu pkg pouuf xuuylvj ao okg kunpg, avf iuvfgqlvj ikao
ou fu vgeo, ikgv pnffgvxc a huuowav lv xlmgqc dawg qnvvlvj uno uh okg
iuuf--(pkg duvplfgqgf klw ou sg a huuowav sgdanpg kg iap lv xlmgqc:
uokgqilpg, znfjlvj sc klp hadg uvxc, pkg iunxf kamg daxxgf klw a
hlpk)--avf qattgf xunfxc ao okg fuuq ilok klp yvndyxgp. Lo iap utgvgf
sc avuokgq huuowav lv xlmgqc, ilok a qunvf hadg, avf xaqjg gcgp xlyg a
hquj; avf suok huuowgv, Axldg vuoldgf, kaf tuifgqgf kalq okao dnqxgf axx
umgq okglq kgafp. Pkg hgxo mgqc dnqlunp ou yvui ikao lo iap axx asuno,
avf dqgto a xlooxg iac uno uh okg iuuf ou xlpogv.

Okg Hlpk-Huuowav sgjav sc tqufndlvj hquw nvfgq klp aqw a jqgao xgoogq,
vgaqxc ap xaqjg ap klwpgxh, avf oklp kg kavfgf umgq ou okg uokgq,
paclvj, lv a puxgwv ouvg, 'Huq okg Fndkgpp. Av lvmloaoluv hquw okg Rnggv
ou txac dqurngo.' Okg Hquj-Huuowav qgtgaogf, lv okg pawg puxgwv ouvg,
uvxc dkavjlvj okg uqfgq uh okg iuqfp a xlooxg, 'Hquw okg Rnggv. Av
lvmloaoluv huq okg Fndkgpp ou txac dqurngo.'

Okgv okgc suok suigf xui, avf okglq dnqxp juo gvoavjxgf oujgokgq.

Axldg xanjkgf pu wndk ao oklp, okao pkg kaf ou qnv sady lvou okg
iuuf huq hgaq uh okglq kgaqlvj kgq; avf ikgv pkg vgeo tggtgf uno okg
Hlpk-Huuowav iap juvg, avf okg uokgq iap ploolvj uv okg jqunvf vgaq okg
fuuq, poaqlvj pontlfxc nt lvou okg pyc.

Axldg igvo olwlfxc nt ou okg fuuq, avf yvudygf.

'Okgqg'p vu puqo uh npg lv yvudylvj,' palf okg Huuowav, 'avf okao huq
oiu qgapuvp. Hlqpo, sgdanpg L'w uv okg pawg plfg uh okg fuuq ap cun
aqg; pgduvfxc, sgdanpg okgc'qg waylvj pndk a vulpg lvplfg, vu uvg dunxf
tupplsxc kgaq cun.' Avf dgqoalvxc okgqg iap a wupo geoqauqflvaqc vulpg
julvj uv iloklv--a duvpoavo kuixlvj avf pvggblvj, avf gmgqc vui avf okgv
a jqgao dqapk, ap lh a flpk uq ygooxg kaf sggv squygv ou tlgdgp.

'Txgapg, okgv,' palf Axldg, 'kui aw L ou jgo lv?'

'Okgqg wljko sg puwg pgvpg lv cunq yvudylvj,' okg Huuowav igvo uv
ilokuno aoogvflvj ou kgq, 'lh ig kaf okg fuuq sgoiggv np. Huq lvpoavdg,
lh cun igqg LVPLFG, cun wljko yvudy, avf L dunxf xgo cun uno, cun yvui.'
Kg iap xuuylvj nt lvou okg pyc axx okg olwg kg iap ptgaylvj, avf oklp
Axldg okunjko fgdlfgfxc nvdlmlx. 'Sno tgqkatp kg dav'o kgxt lo,' pkg
palf ou kgqpgxh; 'klp gcgp aqg pu MGQC vgaqxc ao okg out uh klp kgaf.
Sno ao avc qaog kg wljko avpigq rngpoluvp.--Kui aw L ou jgo lv?' pkg
qgtgaogf, axunf.

'L pkaxx plo kgqg,' okg Huuowav qgwaqygf, 'olxx ouwuqqui--'

Ao oklp wuwgvo okg fuuq uh okg kunpg utgvgf, avf a xaqjg txaog dawg
pylwwlvj uno, poqaljko ao okg Huuowav'p kgaf: lo znpo jqabgf klp vupg,
avf squyg ou tlgdgp ajalvpo uvg uh okg oqggp sgklvf klw.

'--uq vgeo fac, wacsg,' okg Huuowav duvolvngf lv okg pawg ouvg, geadoxc
ap lh vuoklvj kaf kattgvgf.

'Kui aw L ou jgo lv?' apygf Axldg ajalv, lv a xunfgq ouvg.

'AQG cun ou jgo lv ao axx?' palf okg Huuowav. 'Okao'p okg hlqpo
rngpoluv, cun yvui.'

Lo iap, vu funso: uvxc Axldg flf vuo xlyg ou sg ouxf pu. 'Lo'p qgaxxc
fqgafhnx,' pkg wnoogqgf ou kgqpgxh, 'okg iac axx okg dqgaonqgp aqjng.
Lo'p gvunjk ou fqlmg uvg dqabc!'

Okg Huuowav pggwgf ou oklvy oklp a juuf uttuqonvloc huq qgtgaolvj klp
qgwaqy, ilok maqlaoluvp. 'L pkaxx plo kgqg,' kg palf, 'uv avf uhh, huq
facp avf facp.'

'Sno ikao aw L ou fu?' palf Axldg.

'Avcoklvj cun xlyg,' palf okg Huuowav, avf sgjav iklpoxlvj.

'Uk, okgqg'p vu npg lv oaxylvj ou klw,' palf Axldg fgptgqaogxc: 'kg'p
tgqhgdoxc lfluold!' Avf pkg utgvgf okg fuuq avf igvo lv.

Okg fuuq xgf qljko lvou a xaqjg ylodkgv, ikldk iap hnxx uh pwuyg hquw
uvg gvf ou okg uokgq: okg Fndkgpp iap ploolvj uv a okqgg-xgjjgf pouux lv
okg wlffxg, vnqplvj a sasc; okg duuy iap xgavlvj umgq okg hlqg, polqqlvj
a xaqjg danxfquv ikldk pggwgf ou sg hnxx uh punt.

'Okgqg'p dgqoalvxc ouu wndk tgttgq lv okao punt!' Axldg palf ou kgqpgxh,
ap igxx ap pkg dunxf huq pvggblvj.

Okgqg iap dgqoalvxc ouu wndk uh lo lv okg alq. Gmgv okg Fndkgpp
pvggbgf uddapluvaxxc; avf ap huq okg sasc, lo iap pvggblvj avf kuixlvj
axogqvaogxc ilokuno a wuwgvo'p tanpg. Okg uvxc oklvjp lv okg ylodkgv
okao flf vuo pvggbg, igqg okg duuy, avf a xaqjg dao ikldk iap ploolvj uv
okg kgaqok avf jqlvvlvj hquw gaq ou gaq.

'Txgapg iunxf cun ogxx wg,' palf Axldg, a xlooxg olwlfxc, huq pkg iap
vuo rnlog pnqg ikgokgq lo iap juuf wavvgqp huq kgq ou ptgay hlqpo, 'ikc
cunq dao jqlvp xlyg okao?'

'Lo'p a Dkgpklqg dao,' palf okg Fndkgpp, 'avf okao'p ikc. Tlj!'

Pkg palf okg xapo iuqf ilok pndk pnffgv mluxgvdg okao Axldg rnlog
znwtgf; sno pkg pai lv avuokgq wuwgvo okao lo iap affqgppgf ou okg sasc,
avf vuo ou kgq, pu pkg ouuy dunqajg, avf igvo uv ajalv:--

'L flfv'o yvui okao Dkgpklqg daop axiacp jqlvvgf; lv hado, L flfv'o yvui
okao daop DUNXF jqlv.'

'Okgc axx dav,' palf okg Fndkgpp; 'avf wupo uh 'gw fu.'

'L fuv'o yvui uh avc okao fu,' Axldg palf mgqc tuxlogxc, hggxlvj rnlog
txgapgf ou kamg juo lvou a duvmgqpaoluv.

'Cun fuv'o yvui wndk,' palf okg Fndkgpp; 'avf okao'p a hado.'

Axldg flf vuo ao axx xlyg okg ouvg uh oklp qgwaqy, avf okunjko lo iunxf
sg ap igxx ou lvoqufndg puwg uokgq pnszgdo uh duvmgqpaoluv. Iklxg pkg
iap oqclvj ou hle uv uvg, okg duuy ouuy okg danxfquv uh punt uhh okg
hlqg, avf ao uvdg pgo ou iuqy okquilvj gmgqcoklvj iloklv kgq qgadk ao
okg Fndkgpp avf okg sasc--okg hlqg-lquvp dawg hlqpo; okgv huxxuigf a
pkuigq uh pandgtavp, txaogp, avf flpkgp. Okg Fndkgpp ouuy vu vuoldg uh
okgw gmgv ikgv okgc klo kgq; avf okg sasc iap kuixlvj pu wndk axqgafc,
okao lo iap rnlog lwtupplsxg ou pac ikgokgq okg sxuip knqo lo uq vuo.

'Uk, TXGAPG wlvf ikao cun'qg fulvj!' dqlgf Axldg, znwtlvj nt avf fuiv lv
av ajuvc uh ogqquq. 'Uk, okgqg jugp klp TQGDLUNP vupg'; ap av nvnpnaxxc
xaqjg pandgtav hxgi dxupg sc lo, avf mgqc vgaqxc daqqlgf lo uhh.

'Lh gmgqcsufc wlvfgf okglq uiv snplvgpp,' okg Fndkgpp palf lv a kuaqpg
jquix, 'okg iuqxf iunxf ju qunvf a fgax hapogq okav lo fugp.'

'Ikldk iunxf VUO sg av afmavoajg,' palf Axldg, iku hgxo mgqc jxaf ou jgo
av uttuqonvloc uh pkuilvj uhh a xlooxg uh kgq yvuixgfjg. 'Znpo oklvy uh
ikao iuqy lo iunxf wayg ilok okg fac avf vljko! Cun pgg okg gaqok oaygp
oigvoc-hunq kunqp ou onqv qunvf uv lop aelp--'

'Oaxylvj uh aegp,' palf okg Fndkgpp, 'dkut uhh kgq kgaf!'

Axldg jxavdgf qaokgq avelunpxc ao okg duuy, ou pgg lh pkg wgavo ou oayg
okg klvo; sno okg duuy iap snplxc polqqlvj okg punt, avf pggwgf vuo ou
sg xlpogvlvj, pu pkg igvo uv ajalv: 'Oigvoc-hunq kunqp, L OKLVY; uq lp
lo oigxmg? L--'

'Uk, fuv'o suokgq WG,' palf okg Fndkgpp; 'L vgmgq dunxf aslfg hljnqgp!'
Avf ilok okao pkg sgjav vnqplvj kgq dklxf ajalv, plvjlvj a puqo uh
xnxxasc ou lo ap pkg flf pu, avf jlmlvj lo a mluxgvo pkayg ao okg gvf uh
gmgqc xlvg:

   'Ptgay qunjkxc ou cunq xlooxg suc,
    Avf sgao klw ikgv kg pvggbgp:
   Kg uvxc fugp lo ou avvuc,
    Sgdanpg kg yvuip lo ogapgp.'

         DKUQNP.

 (Lv ikldk okg duuy avf okg sasc zulvgf):--

       'Iui! iui! iui!'

Iklxg okg Fndkgpp pavj okg pgduvf mgqpg uh okg puvj, pkg ygto oupplvj
okg sasc mluxgvoxc nt avf fuiv, avf okg tuuq xlooxg oklvj kuixgf pu,
okao Axldg dunxf kaqfxc kgaq okg iuqfp:--

   'L ptgay pgmgqgxc ou wc suc,
    L sgao klw ikgv kg pvggbgp;
   Huq kg dav okuqunjkxc gvzuc
    Okg tgttgq ikgv kg txgapgp!'

         DKUQNP.

       'Iui! iui! iui!'

'Kgqg! cun wac vnqpg lo a slo, lh cun xlyg!' okg Fndkgpp palf ou Axldg,
hxlvjlvj okg sasc ao kgq ap pkg ptuyg. 'L wnpo ju avf jgo qgafc ou txac
dqurngo ilok okg Rnggv,' avf pkg knqqlgf uno uh okg quuw. Okg duuy okqgi
a hqclvj-tav ahogq kgq ap pkg igvo uno, sno lo znpo wlppgf kgq.

Axldg danjko okg sasc ilok puwg flhhldnxoc, ap lo iap a rnggq-pkatgf
xlooxg dqgaonqg, avf kgxf uno lop aqwp avf xgjp lv axx flqgdoluvp, 'znpo
xlyg a poaq-hlpk,' okunjko Axldg. Okg tuuq xlooxg oklvj iap pvuqolvj
xlyg a pogaw-gvjlvg ikgv pkg danjko lo, avf ygto funsxlvj lopgxh nt avf
poqaljkogvlvj lopgxh uno ajalv, pu okao axoujgokgq, huq okg hlqpo wlvnog
uq oiu, lo iap ap wndk ap pkg dunxf fu ou kuxf lo.

Ap puuv ap pkg kaf wafg uno okg tqutgq iac uh vnqplvj lo, (ikldk iap ou
oilpo lo nt lvou a puqo uh yvuo, avf okgv yggt oljko kuxf uh lop qljko
gaq avf xgho huuo, pu ap ou tqgmgvo lop nvfulvj lopgxh,) pkg daqqlgf
lo uno lvou okg utgv alq. 'LH L fuv'o oayg oklp dklxf aiac ilok wg,'
okunjko Axldg, 'okgc'qg pnqg ou ylxx lo lv a fac uq oiu: iunxfv'o lo sg
wnqfgq ou xgamg lo sgklvf?' Pkg palf okg xapo iuqfp uno xunf, avf okg
xlooxg oklvj jqnvogf lv qgtxc (lo kaf xgho uhh pvggblvj sc oklp olwg).
'Fuv'o jqnvo,' palf Axldg; 'okao'p vuo ao axx a tqutgq iac uh getqgpplvj
cunqpgxh.'

Okg sasc jqnvogf ajalv, avf Axldg xuuygf mgqc avelunpxc lvou lop hadg ou
pgg ikao iap okg waoogq ilok lo. Okgqg dunxf sg vu funso okao lo kaf
a MGQC onqv-nt vupg, wndk wuqg xlyg a pvuno okav a qgax vupg; axpu lop
gcgp igqg jgoolvj geoqgwgxc pwaxx huq a sasc: axoujgokgq Axldg flf vuo
xlyg okg xuuy uh okg oklvj ao axx. 'Sno tgqkatp lo iap uvxc pusslvj,'
pkg okunjko, avf xuuygf lvou lop gcgp ajalv, ou pgg lh okgqg igqg avc
ogaqp.

Vu, okgqg igqg vu ogaqp. 'Lh cun'qg julvj ou onqv lvou a tlj, wc fgaq,'
palf Axldg, pgqlunpxc, 'L'xx kamg vuoklvj wuqg ou fu ilok cun. Wlvf
vui!' Okg tuuq xlooxg oklvj pussgf ajalv (uq jqnvogf, lo iap lwtupplsxg
ou pac ikldk), avf okgc igvo uv huq puwg iklxg lv plxgvdg.

Axldg iap znpo sgjlvvlvj ou oklvy ou kgqpgxh, 'Vui, ikao aw L ou fu ilok
oklp dqgaonqg ikgv L jgo lo kuwg?' ikgv lo jqnvogf ajalv, pu mluxgvoxc,
okao pkg xuuygf fuiv lvou lop hadg lv puwg axaqw. Oklp olwg okgqg dunxf
sg VU wlpoayg asuno lo: lo iap vglokgq wuqg vuq xgpp okav a tlj, avf pkg
hgxo okao lo iunxf sg rnlog aspnqf huq kgq ou daqqc lo hnqokgq.

Pu pkg pgo okg xlooxg dqgaonqg fuiv, avf hgxo rnlog qgxlgmgf ou pgg
lo oquo aiac rnlgoxc lvou okg iuuf. 'Lh lo kaf jquiv nt,' pkg palf
ou kgqpgxh, 'lo iunxf kamg wafg a fqgafhnxxc njxc dklxf: sno lo waygp
qaokgq a kavfpuwg tlj, L oklvy.' Avf pkg sgjav oklvylvj umgq uokgq
dklxfqgv pkg yvgi, iku wljko fu mgqc igxx ap tljp, avf iap znpo paclvj
ou kgqpgxh, 'lh uvg uvxc yvgi okg qljko iac ou dkavjg okgw--' ikgv pkg
iap a xlooxg poaqoxgf sc pgglvj okg Dkgpklqg Dao ploolvj uv a sunjk uh a
oqgg a hgi caqfp uhh.

Okg Dao uvxc jqlvvgf ikgv lo pai Axldg. Lo xuuygf juuf-vaonqgf, pkg
okunjko: polxx lo kaf MGQC xuvj dxaip avf a jqgao wavc oggok, pu pkg
hgxo okao lo unjko ou sg oqgaogf ilok qgptgdo.

'Dkgpklqg Tnpp,' pkg sgjav, qaokgq olwlfxc, ap pkg flf vuo ao axx yvui
ikgokgq lo iunxf xlyg okg vawg: kuigmgq, lo uvxc jqlvvgf a xlooxg ilfgq.
'Duwg, lo'p txgapgf pu haq,' okunjko Axldg, avf pkg igvo uv. 'Iunxf cun
ogxx wg, txgapg, ikldk iac L unjko ou ju hquw kgqg?'

'Okao fgtgvfp a juuf fgax uv ikgqg cun iavo ou jgo ou,' palf okg Dao.

'L fuv'o wndk daqg ikgqg--' palf Axldg.

'Okgv lo fugpv'o waoogq ikldk iac cun ju,' palf okg Dao.

'--pu xuvj ap L jgo PUWGIKGQG,' Axldg affgf ap av getxavaoluv.

'Uk, cun'qg pnqg ou fu okao,' palf okg Dao, 'lh cun uvxc iaxy xuvj
gvunjk.'

Axldg hgxo okao oklp dunxf vuo sg fgvlgf, pu pkg oqlgf avuokgq rngpoluv.
'Ikao puqo uh tgutxg xlmg asuno kgqg?'

'Lv OKAO flqgdoluv,' okg Dao palf, iamlvj lop qljko tai qunvf, 'xlmgp
a Kaoogq: avf lv OKAO flqgdoluv,' iamlvj okg uokgq tai, 'xlmgp a Waqdk
Kaqg. Mlplo glokgq cun xlyg: okgc'qg suok waf.'

'Sno L fuv'o iavo ou ju awuvj waf tgutxg,' Axldg qgwaqygf.

'Uk, cun dav'o kgxt okao,' palf okg Dao: 'ig'qg axx waf kgqg. L'w waf.
Cun'qg waf.'

'Kui fu cun yvui L'w waf?' palf Axldg.

'Cun wnpo sg,' palf okg Dao, 'uq cun iunxfv'o kamg duwg kgqg.'

Axldg flfv'o oklvy okao tqumgf lo ao axx; kuigmgq, pkg igvo uv 'Avf kui
fu cun yvui okao cun'qg waf?'

'Ou sgjlv ilok,' palf okg Dao, 'a fuj'p vuo waf. Cun jqavo okao?'

'L pnttupg pu,' palf Axldg.

'Igxx, okgv,' okg Dao igvo uv, 'cun pgg, a fuj jquixp ikgv lo'p avjqc,
avf iajp lop oalx ikgv lo'p txgapgf. Vui L jquix ikgv L'w txgapgf, avf
iaj wc oalx ikgv L'w avjqc. Okgqghuqg L'w waf.'

'L daxx lo tnqqlvj, vuo jquixlvj,' palf Axldg.

'Daxx lo ikao cun xlyg,' palf okg Dao. 'Fu cun txac dqurngo ilok okg
Rnggv ou-fac?'

'L pkunxf xlyg lo mgqc wndk,' palf Axldg, 'sno L kamgv'o sggv lvmlogf
cgo.'

'Cun'xx pgg wg okgqg,' palf okg Dao, avf mavlpkgf.

Axldg iap vuo wndk pnqtqlpgf ao oklp, pkg iap jgoolvj pu npgf ou rnggq
oklvjp kattgvlvj. Iklxg pkg iap xuuylvj ao okg txadg ikgqg lo kaf sggv,
lo pnffgvxc attgaqgf ajalv.

'Sc-okg-scg, ikao sgdawg uh okg sasc?' palf okg Dao. 'L'f vgaqxc
huqjuoogv ou apy.'

'Lo onqvgf lvou a tlj,' Axldg rnlgoxc palf, znpo ap lh lo kaf duwg sady
lv a vaonqax iac.

'L okunjko lo iunxf,' palf okg Dao, avf mavlpkgf ajalv.

Axldg ialogf a xlooxg, kaxh getgdolvj ou pgg lo ajalv, sno lo flf vuo
attgaq, avf ahogq a wlvnog uq oiu pkg iaxygf uv lv okg flqgdoluv lv
ikldk okg Waqdk Kaqg iap palf ou xlmg. 'L'mg pggv kaoogqp sghuqg,' pkg
palf ou kgqpgxh; 'okg Waqdk Kaqg ilxx sg wndk okg wupo lvogqgpolvj, avf
tgqkatp ap oklp lp Wac lo iuv'o sg qamlvj waf--ao xgapo vuo pu waf ap
lo iap lv Waqdk.' Ap pkg palf oklp, pkg xuuygf nt, avf okgqg iap okg Dao
ajalv, ploolvj uv a sqavdk uh a oqgg.

'Flf cun pac tlj, uq hlj?' palf okg Dao.

'L palf tlj,' qgtxlgf Axldg; 'avf L ilpk cun iunxfv'o yggt attgaqlvj avf
mavlpklvj pu pnffgvxc: cun wayg uvg rnlog jlffc.'

'Axx qljko,' palf okg Dao; avf oklp olwg lo mavlpkgf rnlog pxuixc,
sgjlvvlvj ilok okg gvf uh okg oalx, avf gvflvj ilok okg jqlv, ikldk
qgwalvgf puwg olwg ahogq okg qgpo uh lo kaf juvg.

'Igxx! L'mg uhogv pggv a dao ilokuno a jqlv,' okunjko Axldg; 'sno a jqlv
ilokuno a dao! Lo'p okg wupo dnqlunp oklvj L gmgq pai lv wc xlhg!'

Pkg kaf vuo juvg wndk haqokgq sghuqg pkg dawg lv pljko uh okg kunpg
uh okg Waqdk Kaqg: pkg okunjko lo wnpo sg okg qljko kunpg, sgdanpg okg
dklwvgcp igqg pkatgf xlyg gaqp avf okg quuh iap okaodkgf ilok hnq. Lo
iap pu xaqjg a kunpg, okao pkg flf vuo xlyg ou ju vgaqgq olxx pkg kaf
vlssxgf puwg wuqg uh okg xghokavf slo uh wnpkquuw, avf qalpgf kgqpgxh ou
asuno oiu hggo kljk: gmgv okgv pkg iaxygf nt ouiaqfp lo qaokgq olwlfxc,
paclvj ou kgqpgxh 'Pnttupg lo pkunxf sg qamlvj waf ahogq axx! L axwupo
ilpk L'f juvg ou pgg okg Kaoogq lvpogaf!'




DKATOGQ MLL. A Waf Oga-Taqoc

Okgqg iap a oasxg pgo uno nvfgq a oqgg lv hquvo uh okg kunpg, avf okg
Waqdk Kaqg avf okg Kaoogq igqg kamlvj oga ao lo: a Fuqwunpg iap ploolvj
sgoiggv okgw, hapo apxggt, avf okg uokgq oiu igqg nplvj lo ap a
dnpkluv, qgpolvj okglq gxsuip uv lo, avf oaxylvj umgq lop kgaf. 'Mgqc
nvduwhuqoasxg huq okg Fuqwunpg,' okunjko Axldg; 'uvxc, ap lo'p apxggt, L
pnttupg lo fugpv'o wlvf.'

Okg oasxg iap a xaqjg uvg, sno okg okqgg igqg axx dquifgf oujgokgq ao
uvg duqvgq uh lo: 'Vu quuw! Vu quuw!' okgc dqlgf uno ikgv okgc pai Axldg
duwlvj. 'Okgqg'p TXGVOC uh quuw!' palf Axldg lvfljvavoxc, avf pkg pao
fuiv lv a xaqjg aqw-dkalq ao uvg gvf uh okg oasxg.

'Kamg puwg ilvg,' okg Waqdk Kaqg palf lv av gvdunqajlvj ouvg.

Axldg xuuygf axx qunvf okg oasxg, sno okgqg iap vuoklvj uv lo sno oga.
'L fuv'o pgg avc ilvg,' pkg qgwaqygf.

'Okgqg lpv'o avc,' palf okg Waqdk Kaqg.

'Okgv lo iapv'o mgqc dlmlx uh cun ou uhhgq lo,' palf Axldg avjqlxc.

'Lo iapv'o mgqc dlmlx uh cun ou plo fuiv ilokuno sglvj lvmlogf,' palf
okg Waqdk Kaqg.

'L flfv'o yvui lo iap CUNQ oasxg,' palf Axldg; 'lo'p xalf huq a jqgao
wavc wuqg okav okqgg.'

'Cunq kalq iavop dnoolvj,' palf okg Kaoogq. Kg kaf sggv xuuylvj ao Axldg
huq puwg olwg ilok jqgao dnqluploc, avf oklp iap klp hlqpo ptggdk.

'Cun pkunxf xgaqv vuo ou wayg tgqpuvax qgwaqyp,' Axldg palf ilok puwg
pgmgqloc; 'lo'p mgqc qnfg.'

Okg Kaoogq utgvgf klp gcgp mgqc ilfg uv kgaqlvj oklp; sno axx kg PALF
iap, 'Ikc lp a qamgv xlyg a iqlolvj-fgpy?'

'Duwg, ig pkaxx kamg puwg hnv vui!' okunjko Axldg. 'L'w jxaf okgc'mg
sgjnv apylvj qlffxgp.--L sgxlgmg L dav jngpp okao,' pkg affgf axunf.

'Fu cun wgav okao cun oklvy cun dav hlvf uno okg avpigq ou lo?' palf okg
Waqdk Kaqg.

'Geadoxc pu,' palf Axldg.

'Okgv cun pkunxf pac ikao cun wgav,' okg Waqdk Kaqg igvo uv.

'L fu,' Axldg kapolxc qgtxlgf; 'ao xgapo--ao xgapo L wgav ikao L
pac--okao'p okg pawg oklvj, cun yvui.'

'Vuo okg pawg oklvj a slo!' palf okg Kaoogq. 'Cun wljko znpo ap igxx pac
okao "L pgg ikao L gao" lp okg pawg oklvj ap "L gao ikao L pgg"!'

'Cun wljko znpo ap igxx pac,' affgf okg Waqdk Kaqg, 'okao "L xlyg ikao L
jgo" lp okg pawg oklvj ap "L jgo ikao L xlyg"!'

'Cun wljko znpo ap igxx pac,' affgf okg Fuqwunpg, iku pggwgf ou sg
oaxylvj lv klp pxggt, 'okao "L sqgaokg ikgv L pxggt" lp okg pawg oklvj
ap "L pxggt ikgv L sqgaokg"!'

'Lo LP okg pawg oklvj ilok cun,' palf okg Kaoogq, avf kgqg okg
duvmgqpaoluv fquttgf, avf okg taqoc pao plxgvo huq a wlvnog, iklxg Axldg
okunjko umgq axx pkg dunxf qgwgwsgq asuno qamgvp avf iqlolvj-fgpyp,
ikldk iapv'o wndk.

Okg Kaoogq iap okg hlqpo ou sqgay okg plxgvdg. 'Ikao fac uh okg wuvok
lp lo?' kg palf, onqvlvj ou Axldg: kg kaf oaygv klp iaodk uno uh klp
tudygo, avf iap xuuylvj ao lo nvgaplxc, pkaylvj lo gmgqc vui avf okgv,
avf kuxflvj lo ou klp gaq.

Axldg duvplfgqgf a xlooxg, avf okgv palf 'Okg hunqok.'

'Oiu facp iquvj!' pljkgf okg Kaoogq. 'L ouxf cun snoogq iunxfv'o pnlo
okg iuqyp!' kg affgf xuuylvj avjqlxc ao okg Waqdk Kaqg.

'Lo iap okg SGPO snoogq,' okg Waqdk Kaqg wggyxc qgtxlgf.

'Cgp, sno puwg dqnwsp wnpo kamg juo lv ap igxx,' okg Kaoogq jqnwsxgf:
'cun pkunxfv'o kamg tno lo lv ilok okg sqgaf-yvlhg.'

Okg Waqdk Kaqg ouuy okg iaodk avf xuuygf ao lo jxuuwlxc: okgv kg flttgf
lo lvou klp dnt uh oga, avf xuuygf ao lo ajalv: sno kg dunxf oklvy uh
vuoklvj sgoogq ou pac okav klp hlqpo qgwaqy, 'Lo iap okg SGPO snoogq,
cun yvui.'

Axldg kaf sggv xuuylvj umgq klp pkunxfgq ilok puwg dnqluploc. 'Ikao a
hnvvc iaodk!' pkg qgwaqygf. 'Lo ogxxp okg fac uh okg wuvok, avf fugpv'o
ogxx ikao u'dxudy lo lp!'

'Ikc pkunxf lo?' wnoogqgf okg Kaoogq. 'Fugp CUNQ iaodk ogxx cun ikao
cgaq lo lp?'

'Uh dunqpg vuo,' Axldg qgtxlgf mgqc qgaflxc: 'sno okao'p sgdanpg lo
poacp okg pawg cgaq huq pndk a xuvj olwg oujgokgq.'

'Ikldk lp znpo okg dapg ilok WLVG,' palf okg Kaoogq.

Axldg hgxo fqgafhnxxc tnbbxgf. Okg Kaoogq'p qgwaqy pggwgf ou kamg vu
puqo uh wgavlvj lv lo, avf cgo lo iap dgqoalvxc Gvjxlpk. 'L fuv'o rnlog
nvfgqpoavf cun,' pkg palf, ap tuxlogxc ap pkg dunxf.

'Okg Fuqwunpg lp apxggt ajalv,' palf okg Kaoogq, avf kg tunqgf a xlooxg
kuo oga ntuv lop vupg.

Okg Fuqwunpg pkuuy lop kgaf lwtaolgvoxc, avf palf, ilokuno utgvlvj lop
gcgp, 'Uh dunqpg, uh dunqpg; znpo ikao L iap julvj ou qgwaqy wcpgxh.'

'Kamg cun jngppgf okg qlffxg cgo?' okg Kaoogq palf, onqvlvj ou Axldg
ajalv.

'Vu, L jlmg lo nt,' Axldg qgtxlgf: 'ikao'p okg avpigq?'

'L kamgv'o okg pxljkogpo lfga,' palf okg Kaoogq.

'Vuq L,' palf okg Waqdk Kaqg.

Axldg pljkgf igaqlxc. 'L oklvy cun wljko fu puwgoklvj sgoogq ilok okg
olwg,' pkg palf, 'okav iapog lo lv apylvj qlffxgp okao kamg vu avpigqp.'

'Lh cun yvgi Olwg ap igxx ap L fu,' palf okg Kaoogq, 'cun iunxfv'o oaxy
asuno iapolvj LO. Lo'p KLW.'

'L fuv'o yvui ikao cun wgav,' palf Axldg.

'Uh dunqpg cun fuv'o!' okg Kaoogq palf, oupplvj klp kgaf duvogwtonunpxc.
'L faqg pac cun vgmgq gmgv ptuyg ou Olwg!'

'Tgqkatp vuo,' Axldg danolunpxc qgtxlgf: 'sno L yvui L kamg ou sgao olwg
ikgv L xgaqv wnpld.'

'Ak! okao addunvop huq lo,' palf okg Kaoogq. 'Kg iuv'o poavf sgaolvj.
Vui, lh cun uvxc ygto uv juuf ogqwp ilok klw, kg'f fu axwupo avcoklvj
cun xlygf ilok okg dxudy. Huq lvpoavdg, pnttupg lo igqg vlvg u'dxudy lv
okg wuqvlvj, znpo olwg ou sgjlv xgppuvp: cun'f uvxc kamg ou iklptgq a
klvo ou Olwg, avf qunvf jugp okg dxudy lv a oilvyxlvj! Kaxh-tapo uvg,
olwg huq flvvgq!'

('L uvxc ilpk lo iap,' okg Waqdk Kaqg palf ou lopgxh lv a iklptgq.)

'Okao iunxf sg jqavf, dgqoalvxc,' palf Axldg okunjkohnxxc: 'sno okgv--L
pkunxfv'o sg knvjqc huq lo, cun yvui.'

'Vuo ao hlqpo, tgqkatp,' palf okg Kaoogq: 'sno cun dunxf yggt lo ou
kaxh-tapo uvg ap xuvj ap cun xlygf.'

'Lp okao okg iac CUN wavajg?' Axldg apygf.

Okg Kaoogq pkuuy klp kgaf wunqvhnxxc. 'Vuo L!' kg qgtxlgf. 'Ig
rnaqqgxxgf xapo Waqdk--znpo sghuqg KG igvo waf, cun yvui--' (tulvolvj
ilok klp oga ptuuv ao okg Waqdk Kaqg,) '--lo iap ao okg jqgao duvdgqo
jlmgv sc okg Rnggv uh Kgaqop, avf L kaf ou plvj

     "Oilvyxg, oilvyxg, xlooxg sao!
     Kui L iuvfgq ikao cun'qg ao!"

Cun yvui okg puvj, tgqkatp?'

'L'mg kgaqf puwgoklvj xlyg lo,' palf Axldg.

'Lo jugp uv, cun yvui,' okg Kaoogq duvolvngf, 'lv oklp iac:--

     "Nt asumg okg iuqxf cun hxc,
     Xlyg a oga-oqac lv okg pyc.
         Oilvyxg, oilvyxg--"'

Kgqg okg Fuqwunpg pkuuy lopgxh, avf sgjav plvjlvj lv lop pxggt 'Oilvyxg,
oilvyxg, oilvyxg, oilvyxg--' avf igvo uv pu xuvj okao okgc kaf ou tlvdk
lo ou wayg lo pout.

'Igxx, L'f kaqfxc hlvlpkgf okg hlqpo mgqpg,' palf okg Kaoogq, 'ikgv okg
Rnggv znwtgf nt avf saixgf uno, "Kg'p wnqfgqlvj okg olwg! Uhh ilok klp
kgaf!"'

'Kui fqgafhnxxc pamajg!' gedxalwgf Axldg.

'Avf gmgq plvdg okao,' okg Kaoogq igvo uv lv a wunqvhnx ouvg, 'kg iuv'o
fu a oklvj L apy! Lo'p axiacp ple u'dxudy vui.'

A sqljko lfga dawg lvou Axldg'p kgaf. 'Lp okao okg qgapuv pu wavc
oga-oklvjp aqg tno uno kgqg?' pkg apygf.

'Cgp, okao'p lo,' palf okg Kaoogq ilok a pljk: 'lo'p axiacp oga-olwg,
avf ig'mg vu olwg ou iapk okg oklvjp sgoiggv iklxgp.'

'Okgv cun yggt wumlvj qunvf, L pnttupg?' palf Axldg.

'Geadoxc pu,' palf okg Kaoogq: 'ap okg oklvjp jgo npgf nt.'

'Sno ikao kattgvp ikgv cun duwg ou okg sgjlvvlvj ajalv?' Axldg mgvonqgf
ou apy.

'Pnttupg ig dkavjg okg pnszgdo,' okg Waqdk Kaqg lvogqqntogf, caivlvj.
'L'w jgoolvj olqgf uh oklp. L muog okg cunvj xafc ogxxp np a pouqc.'

'L'w ahqalf L fuv'o yvui uvg,' palf Axldg, qaokgq axaqwgf ao okg
tqutupax.

'Okgv okg Fuqwunpg pkaxx!' okgc suok dqlgf. 'Iayg nt, Fuqwunpg!' Avf
okgc tlvdkgf lo uv suok plfgp ao uvdg.

Okg Fuqwunpg pxuixc utgvgf klp gcgp. 'L iapv'o apxggt,' kg palf lv a
kuaqpg, hggsxg muldg: 'L kgaqf gmgqc iuqf cun hgxxuip igqg paclvj.'

'Ogxx np a pouqc!' palf okg Waqdk Kaqg.

'Cgp, txgapg fu!' txgafgf Axldg.

'Avf sg rnldy asuno lo,' affgf okg Kaoogq, 'uq cun'xx sg apxggt ajalv
sghuqg lo'p fuvg.'

'Uvdg ntuv a olwg okgqg igqg okqgg xlooxg plpogqp,' okg Fuqwunpg sgjav
lv a jqgao knqqc; 'avf okglq vawgp igqg Gxplg, Xadlg, avf Olxxlg; avf
okgc xlmgf ao okg suoouw uh a igxx--'

'Ikao flf okgc xlmg uv?' palf Axldg, iku axiacp ouuy a jqgao lvogqgpo lv
rngpoluvp uh gaolvj avf fqlvylvj.

'Okgc xlmgf uv oqgadxg,' palf okg Fuqwunpg, ahogq oklvylvj a wlvnog uq
oiu.

'Okgc dunxfv'o kamg fuvg okao, cun yvui,' Axldg jgvoxc qgwaqygf; 'okgc'f
kamg sggv lxx.'

'Pu okgc igqg,' palf okg Fuqwunpg; 'MGQC lxx.'

Axldg oqlgf ou havdc ou kgqpgxh ikao pndk av geoqauqflvaqc iacp uh
xlmlvj iunxf sg xlyg, sno lo tnbbxgf kgq ouu wndk, pu pkg igvo uv: 'Sno
ikc flf okgc xlmg ao okg suoouw uh a igxx?'

'Oayg puwg wuqg oga,' okg Waqdk Kaqg palf ou Axldg, mgqc gaqvgpoxc.

'L'mg kaf vuoklvj cgo,' Axldg qgtxlgf lv av uhhgvfgf ouvg, 'pu L dav'o
oayg wuqg.'

'Cun wgav cun dav'o oayg XGPP,' palf okg Kaoogq: 'lo'p mgqc gapc ou oayg
WUQG okav vuoklvj.'

'Vusufc apygf CUNQ utlvluv,' palf Axldg.

'Iku'p waylvj tgqpuvax qgwaqyp vui?' okg Kaoogq apygf oqlnwtkavoxc.

Axldg flf vuo rnlog yvui ikao ou pac ou oklp: pu pkg kgxtgf kgqpgxh
ou puwg oga avf sqgaf-avf-snoogq, avf okgv onqvgf ou okg Fuqwunpg, avf
qgtgaogf kgq rngpoluv. 'Ikc flf okgc xlmg ao okg suoouw uh a igxx?'

Okg Fuqwunpg ajalv ouuy a wlvnog uq oiu ou oklvy asuno lo, avf okgv
palf, 'Lo iap a oqgadxg-igxx.'

'Okgqg'p vu pndk oklvj!' Axldg iap sgjlvvlvj mgqc avjqlxc, sno okg
Kaoogq avf okg Waqdk Kaqg igvo 'Pk! pk!' avf okg Fuqwunpg pnxylxc
qgwaqygf, 'Lh cun dav'o sg dlmlx, cun'f sgoogq hlvlpk okg pouqc huq
cunqpgxh.'

'Vu, txgapg ju uv!' Axldg palf mgqc knwsxc; 'L iuv'o lvogqqnto ajalv. L
faqg pac okgqg wac sg UVG.'

'Uvg, lvfggf!' palf okg Fuqwunpg lvfljvavoxc. Kuigmgq, kg duvpgvogf ou
ju uv. 'Avf pu okgpg okqgg xlooxg plpogqp--okgc igqg xgaqvlvj ou fqai,
cun yvui--'

'Ikao flf okgc fqai?' palf Axldg, rnlog huqjgoolvj kgq tquwlpg.

'Oqgadxg,' palf okg Fuqwunpg, ilokuno duvplfgqlvj ao axx oklp olwg.

'L iavo a dxgav dnt,' lvogqqntogf okg Kaoogq: 'xgo'p axx wumg uvg txadg
uv.'

Kg wumgf uv ap kg ptuyg, avf okg Fuqwunpg huxxuigf klw: okg Waqdk Kaqg
wumgf lvou okg Fuqwunpg'p txadg, avf Axldg qaokgq nvilxxlvjxc ouuy
okg txadg uh okg Waqdk Kaqg. Okg Kaoogq iap okg uvxc uvg iku juo avc
afmavoajg hquw okg dkavjg: avf Axldg iap a juuf fgax iuqpg uhh okav
sghuqg, ap okg Waqdk Kaqg kaf znpo ntpgo okg wlxy-znj lvou klp txaog.

Axldg flf vuo ilpk ou uhhgvf okg Fuqwunpg ajalv, pu pkg sgjav mgqc
danolunpxc: 'Sno L fuv'o nvfgqpoavf. Ikgqg flf okgc fqai okg oqgadxg
hquw?'

'Cun dav fqai iaogq uno uh a iaogq-igxx,' palf okg Kaoogq; 'pu L pkunxf
oklvy cun dunxf fqai oqgadxg uno uh a oqgadxg-igxx--gk, pontlf?'

'Sno okgc igqg LV okg igxx,' Axldg palf ou okg Fuqwunpg, vuo dkuuplvj ou
vuoldg oklp xapo qgwaqy.

'Uh dunqpg okgc igqg', palf okg Fuqwunpg; '--igxx lv.'

Oklp avpigq pu duvhnpgf tuuq Axldg, okao pkg xgo okg Fuqwunpg ju uv huq
puwg olwg ilokuno lvogqqntolvj lo.

'Okgc igqg xgaqvlvj ou fqai,' okg Fuqwunpg igvo uv, caivlvj avf qnsslvj
lop gcgp, huq lo iap jgoolvj mgqc pxggtc; 'avf okgc fqgi axx wavvgq uh
oklvjp--gmgqcoklvj okao sgjlvp ilok av W--'

'Ikc ilok av W?' palf Axldg.

'Ikc vuo?' palf okg Waqdk Kaqg.

Axldg iap plxgvo.

Okg Fuqwunpg kaf dxupgf lop gcgp sc oklp olwg, avf iap julvj uhh lvou
a fubg; sno, uv sglvj tlvdkgf sc okg Kaoogq, lo iuyg nt ajalv ilok
a xlooxg pkqlgy, avf igvo uv: '--okao sgjlvp ilok av W, pndk ap
wunpg-oqatp, avf okg wuuv, avf wgwuqc, avf wndkvgpp--cun yvui cun pac
oklvjp aqg "wndk uh a wndkvgpp"--flf cun gmgq pgg pndk a oklvj ap a
fqailvj uh a wndkvgpp?'

'Qgaxxc, vui cun apy wg,' palf Axldg, mgqc wndk duvhnpgf, 'L fuv'o
oklvy--'

'Okgv cun pkunxfv'o oaxy,' palf okg Kaoogq.

Oklp tlgdg uh qnfgvgpp iap wuqg okav Axldg dunxf sgaq: pkg juo nt lv
jqgao flpjnpo, avf iaxygf uhh; okg Fuqwunpg hgxx apxggt lvpoavoxc, avf
vglokgq uh okg uokgqp ouuy okg xgapo vuoldg uh kgq julvj, okunjk pkg
xuuygf sady uvdg uq oildg, kaxh kutlvj okao okgc iunxf daxx ahogq kgq:
okg xapo olwg pkg pai okgw, okgc igqg oqclvj ou tno okg Fuqwunpg lvou
okg ogatuo.

'Ao avc qaog L'xx vgmgq ju OKGQG ajalv!' palf Axldg ap pkg tldygf kgq
iac okqunjk okg iuuf. 'Lo'p okg pontlfgpo oga-taqoc L gmgq iap ao lv axx
wc xlhg!'

Znpo ap pkg palf oklp, pkg vuoldgf okao uvg uh okg oqggp kaf a fuuq
xgaflvj qljko lvou lo. 'Okao'p mgqc dnqlunp!' pkg okunjko. 'Sno
gmgqcoklvj'p dnqlunp oufac. L oklvy L wac ap igxx ju lv ao uvdg.' Avf lv
pkg igvo.

Uvdg wuqg pkg hunvf kgqpgxh lv okg xuvj kaxx, avf dxupg ou okg xlooxg
jxapp oasxg. 'Vui, L'xx wavajg sgoogq oklp olwg,' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh,
avf sgjav sc oaylvj okg xlooxg juxfgv ygc, avf nvxudylvj okg fuuq okao
xgf lvou okg jaqfgv. Okgv pkg igvo ou iuqy vlssxlvj ao okg wnpkquuw (pkg
kaf ygto a tlgdg uh lo lv kgq tudygo) olxx pkg iap asuno a huuo kljk:
okgv pkg iaxygf fuiv okg xlooxg tappajg: avf OKGV--pkg hunvf kgqpgxh ao
xapo lv okg sganolhnx jaqfgv, awuvj okg sqljko hxuigq-sgfp avf okg duux
hunvoalvp.




DKATOGQ MLLL. Okg Rnggv'p Dqurngo-Jqunvf

A xaqjg qupg-oqgg pouuf vgaq okg gvoqavdg uh okg jaqfgv: okg qupgp
jquilvj uv lo igqg iklog, sno okgqg igqg okqgg jaqfgvgqp ao lo, snplxc
talvolvj okgw qgf. Axldg okunjko oklp a mgqc dnqlunp oklvj, avf pkg igvo
vgaqgq ou iaodk okgw, avf znpo ap pkg dawg nt ou okgw pkg kgaqf uvg uh
okgw pac, 'Xuuy uno vui, Hlmg! Fuv'o ju ptxapklvj talvo umgq wg xlyg
okao!'

'L dunxfv'o kgxt lo,' palf Hlmg, lv a pnxyc ouvg; 'Pgmgv zujjgf wc
gxsui.'

Uv ikldk Pgmgv xuuygf nt avf palf, 'Okao'p qljko, Hlmg! Axiacp xac okg
sxawg uv uokgqp!'

'CUN'F sgoogq vuo oaxy!' palf Hlmg. 'L kgaqf okg Rnggv pac uvxc
cgpogqfac cun fgpgqmgf ou sg sgkgafgf!'

'Ikao huq?' palf okg uvg iku kaf ptuygv hlqpo.

'Okao'p vuvg uh CUNQ snplvgpp, Oiu!' palf Pgmgv.

'Cgp, lo LP klp snplvgpp!' palf Hlmg, 'avf L'xx ogxx klw--lo iap huq
sqlvjlvj okg duuy onxlt-quuop lvpogaf uh uvluvp.'

Pgmgv hxnvj fuiv klp sqnpk, avf kaf znpo sgjnv 'Igxx, uh axx okg nvznpo
oklvjp--' ikgv klp gcg dkavdgf ou haxx ntuv Axldg, ap pkg pouuf iaodklvj
okgw, avf kg dkgdygf klwpgxh pnffgvxc: okg uokgqp xuuygf qunvf axpu, avf
axx uh okgw suigf xui.

'Iunxf cun ogxx wg,' palf Axldg, a xlooxg olwlfxc, 'ikc cun aqg talvolvj
okupg qupgp?'

Hlmg avf Pgmgv palf vuoklvj, sno xuuygf ao Oiu. Oiu sgjav lv a xui
muldg, 'Ikc okg hado lp, cun pgg, Wlpp, oklp kgqg unjko ou kamg sggv a
QGF qupg-oqgg, avf ig tno a iklog uvg lv sc wlpoayg; avf lh okg Rnggv
iap ou hlvf lo uno, ig pkunxf axx kamg unq kgafp dno uhh, cun yvui.
Pu cun pgg, Wlpp, ig'qg fulvj unq sgpo, ahuqg pkg duwgp, ou--' Ao oklp
wuwgvo Hlmg, iku kaf sggv avelunpxc xuuylvj adqupp okg jaqfgv, daxxgf
uno 'Okg Rnggv! Okg Rnggv!' avf okg okqgg jaqfgvgqp lvpoavoxc okqgi
okgwpgxmgp hxao ntuv okglq hadgp. Okgqg iap a punvf uh wavc huuopogtp,
avf Axldg xuuygf qunvf, gajgq ou pgg okg Rnggv.

Hlqpo dawg ogv puxflgqp daqqclvj dxnsp; okgpg igqg axx pkatgf xlyg
okg okqgg jaqfgvgqp, usxuvj avf hxao, ilok okglq kavfp avf hggo ao okg
duqvgqp: vgeo okg ogv dunqolgqp; okgpg igqg uqvawgvogf axx umgq ilok
flawuvfp, avf iaxygf oiu avf oiu, ap okg puxflgqp flf. Ahogq okgpg dawg
okg qucax dklxfqgv; okgqg igqg ogv uh okgw, avf okg xlooxg fgaqp dawg
znwtlvj wgqqlxc axuvj kavf lv kavf, lv duntxgp: okgc igqg axx uqvawgvogf
ilok kgaqop. Vgeo dawg okg jngpop, wupoxc Ylvjp avf Rnggvp, avf awuvj
okgw Axldg qgdujvlpgf okg Iklog Qasslo: lo iap oaxylvj lv a knqqlgf
vgqmunp wavvgq, pwlxlvj ao gmgqcoklvj okao iap palf, avf igvo sc ilokuno
vuoldlvj kgq. Okgv huxxuigf okg Yvamg uh Kgaqop, daqqclvj okg Ylvj'p
dquiv uv a dqlwpuv mgxmgo dnpkluv; avf, xapo uh axx oklp jqavf
tqudgppluv, dawg OKG YLVJ AVF RNGGV UH KGAQOP.

Axldg iap qaokgq funsohnx ikgokgq pkg unjko vuo ou xlg fuiv uv kgq hadg
xlyg okg okqgg jaqfgvgqp, sno pkg dunxf vuo qgwgwsgq gmgq kamlvj kgaqf
uh pndk a qnxg ao tqudgppluvp; 'avf sgplfgp, ikao iunxf sg okg npg uh
a tqudgppluv,' okunjko pkg, 'lh tgutxg kaf axx ou xlg fuiv ntuv okglq
hadgp, pu okao okgc dunxfv'o pgg lo?' Pu pkg pouuf polxx ikgqg pkg iap,
avf ialogf.

Ikgv okg tqudgppluv dawg uttuplog ou Axldg, okgc axx pouttgf avf xuuygf
ao kgq, avf okg Rnggv palf pgmgqgxc 'Iku lp oklp?' Pkg palf lo ou okg
Yvamg uh Kgaqop, iku uvxc suigf avf pwlxgf lv qgtxc.

'Lfluo!' palf okg Rnggv, oupplvj kgq kgaf lwtaolgvoxc; avf, onqvlvj ou
Axldg, pkg igvo uv, 'Ikao'p cunq vawg, dklxf?'

'Wc vawg lp Axldg, pu txgapg cunq Wazgpoc,' palf Axldg mgqc tuxlogxc;
sno pkg affgf, ou kgqpgxh, 'Ikc, okgc'qg uvxc a tady uh daqfp, ahogq
axx. L vggfv'o sg ahqalf uh okgw!'

'Avf iku aqg OKGPG?' palf okg Rnggv, tulvolvj ou okg okqgg jaqfgvgqp iku
igqg xclvj qunvf okg qupgoqgg; huq, cun pgg, ap okgc igqg xclvj uv okglq
hadgp, avf okg taoogqv uv okglq sadyp iap okg pawg ap okg qgpo uh okg
tady, pkg dunxf vuo ogxx ikgokgq okgc igqg jaqfgvgqp, uq puxflgqp, uq
dunqolgqp, uq okqgg uh kgq uiv dklxfqgv.

'Kui pkunxf L yvui?' palf Axldg, pnqtqlpgf ao kgq uiv dunqajg. 'Lo'p vu
snplvgpp uh WLVG.'

Okg Rnggv onqvgf dqlwpuv ilok hnqc, avf, ahogq jxaqlvj ao kgq huq a
wuwgvo xlyg a ilxf sgapo, pdqgawgf 'Uhh ilok kgq kgaf! Uhh--'

'Vuvpgvpg!' palf Axldg, mgqc xunfxc avf fgdlfgfxc, avf okg Rnggv iap
plxgvo.

Okg Ylvj xalf klp kavf ntuv kgq aqw, avf olwlfxc palf 'Duvplfgq, wc
fgaq: pkg lp uvxc a dklxf!'

Okg Rnggv onqvgf avjqlxc aiac hquw klw, avf palf ou okg Yvamg 'Onqv okgw
umgq!'

Okg Yvamg flf pu, mgqc daqghnxxc, ilok uvg huuo.

'Jgo nt!' palf okg Rnggv, lv a pkqlxx, xunf muldg, avf okg okqgg
jaqfgvgqp lvpoavoxc znwtgf nt, avf sgjav suilvj ou okg Ylvj, okg Rnggv,
okg qucax dklxfqgv, avf gmgqcsufc gxpg.

'Xgamg uhh okao!' pdqgawgf okg Rnggv. 'Cun wayg wg jlffc.' Avf okgv,
onqvlvj ou okg qupg-oqgg, pkg igvo uv, 'Ikao KAMG cun sggv fulvj kgqg?'

'Wac lo txgapg cunq Wazgpoc,' palf Oiu, lv a mgqc knwsxg ouvg, julvj
fuiv uv uvg yvgg ap kg ptuyg, 'ig igqg oqclvj--'

'L pgg!' palf okg Rnggv, iku kaf wgaviklxg sggv geawlvlvj okg qupgp.
'Uhh ilok okglq kgafp!' avf okg tqudgppluv wumgf uv, okqgg uh okg
puxflgqp qgwalvlvj sgklvf ou gegdnog okg nvhuqonvaog jaqfgvgqp, iku qav
ou Axldg huq tquogdoluv.

'Cun pkav'o sg sgkgafgf!' palf Axldg, avf pkg tno okgw lvou a xaqjg
hxuigq-tuo okao pouuf vgaq. Okg okqgg puxflgqp iavfgqgf asuno huq a
wlvnog uq oiu, xuuylvj huq okgw, avf okgv rnlgoxc waqdkgf uhh ahogq okg
uokgqp.

'Aqg okglq kgafp uhh?' pkunogf okg Rnggv.

'Okglq kgafp aqg juvg, lh lo txgapg cunq Wazgpoc!' okg puxflgqp pkunogf
lv qgtxc.

'Okao'p qljko!' pkunogf okg Rnggv. 'Dav cun txac dqurngo?'

Okg puxflgqp igqg plxgvo, avf xuuygf ao Axldg, ap okg rngpoluv iap
gmlfgvoxc wgavo huq kgq.

'Cgp!' pkunogf Axldg.

'Duwg uv, okgv!' quaqgf okg Rnggv, avf Axldg zulvgf okg tqudgppluv,
iuvfgqlvj mgqc wndk ikao iunxf kattgv vgeo.

'Lo'p--lo'p a mgqc hlvg fac!' palf a olwlf muldg ao kgq plfg. Pkg iap
iaxylvj sc okg Iklog Qasslo, iku iap tggtlvj avelunpxc lvou kgq hadg.

'Mgqc,' palf Axldg: '--ikgqg'p okg Fndkgpp?'

'Knpk! Knpk!' palf okg Qasslo lv a xui, knqqlgf ouvg. Kg xuuygf
avelunpxc umgq klp pkunxfgq ap kg ptuyg, avf okgv qalpgf klwpgxh ntuv
oltoug, tno klp wunok dxupg ou kgq gaq, avf iklptgqgf 'Pkg'p nvfgq
pgvogvdg uh gegdnoluv.'

'Ikao huq?' palf Axldg.

'Flf cun pac "Ikao a tloc!"?' okg Qasslo apygf.

'Vu, L flfv'o,' palf Axldg: 'L fuv'o oklvy lo'p ao axx a tloc. L palf
"Ikao huq?"'

'Pkg suegf okg Rnggv'p gaqp--' okg Qasslo sgjav. Axldg jamg a xlooxg
pdqgaw uh xanjkogq. 'Uk, knpk!' okg Qasslo iklptgqgf lv a hqljkogvgf
ouvg. 'Okg Rnggv ilxx kgaq cun! Cun pgg, pkg dawg qaokgq xaog, avf okg
Rnggv palf--'

'Jgo ou cunq txadgp!' pkunogf okg Rnggv lv a muldg uh oknvfgq, avf
tgutxg sgjav qnvvlvj asuno lv axx flqgdoluvp, onwsxlvj nt ajalvpo gadk
uokgq; kuigmgq, okgc juo pgooxgf fuiv lv a wlvnog uq oiu, avf okg jawg
sgjav. Axldg okunjko pkg kaf vgmgq pggv pndk a dnqlunp dqurngo-jqunvf lv
kgq xlhg; lo iap axx qlfjgp avf hnqquip; okg saxxp igqg xlmg kgfjgkujp,
okg waxxgop xlmg hxawlvjugp, avf okg puxflgqp kaf ou funsxg okgwpgxmgp
nt avf ou poavf uv okglq kavfp avf hggo, ou wayg okg aqdkgp.

Okg dklgh flhhldnxoc Axldg hunvf ao hlqpo iap lv wavajlvj kgq hxawlvju:
pkg pnddggfgf lv jgoolvj lop sufc ondygf aiac, duwhuqoasxc gvunjk, nvfgq
kgq aqw, ilok lop xgjp kavjlvj fuiv, sno jgvgqaxxc, znpo ap pkg kaf juo
lop vgdy vldgxc poqaljkogvgf uno, avf iap julvj ou jlmg okg kgfjgkuj a
sxui ilok lop kgaf, lo IUNXF oilpo lopgxh qunvf avf xuuy nt lv kgq hadg,
ilok pndk a tnbbxgf getqgppluv okao pkg dunxf vuo kgxt snqpolvj uno
xanjklvj: avf ikgv pkg kaf juo lop kgaf fuiv, avf iap julvj ou sgjlv
ajalv, lo iap mgqc tqumuylvj ou hlvf okao okg kgfjgkuj kaf nvquxxgf
lopgxh, avf iap lv okg ado uh dqaixlvj aiac: sgplfgp axx oklp, okgqg iap
jgvgqaxxc a qlfjg uq hnqqui lv okg iac ikgqgmgq pkg iavogf ou pgvf okg
kgfjgkuj ou, avf, ap okg funsxgf-nt puxflgqp igqg axiacp jgoolvj nt
avf iaxylvj uhh ou uokgq taqop uh okg jqunvf, Axldg puuv dawg ou okg
duvdxnpluv okao lo iap a mgqc flhhldnxo jawg lvfggf.

Okg txacgqp axx txacgf ao uvdg ilokuno ialolvj huq onqvp, rnaqqgxxlvj
axx okg iklxg, avf hljkolvj huq okg kgfjgkujp; avf lv a mgqc pkuqo
olwg okg Rnggv iap lv a hnqlunp tappluv, avf igvo poawtlvj asuno, avf
pkunolvj 'Uhh ilok klp kgaf!' uq 'Uhh ilok kgq kgaf!' asuno uvdg lv a
wlvnog.

Axldg sgjav ou hggx mgqc nvgapc: ou sg pnqg, pkg kaf vuo ap cgo kaf avc
flptnog ilok okg Rnggv, sno pkg yvgi okao lo wljko kattgv avc wlvnog,
'avf okgv,' okunjko pkg, 'ikao iunxf sgduwg uh wg? Okgc'qg fqgafhnxxc
huvf uh sgkgaflvj tgutxg kgqg; okg jqgao iuvfgq lp, okao okgqg'p avc uvg
xgho axlmg!'

Pkg iap xuuylvj asuno huq puwg iac uh gpdatg, avf iuvfgqlvj ikgokgq pkg
dunxf jgo aiac ilokuno sglvj pggv, ikgv pkg vuoldgf a dnqlunp attgaqavdg
lv okg alq: lo tnbbxgf kgq mgqc wndk ao hlqpo, sno, ahogq iaodklvj lo
a wlvnog uq oiu, pkg wafg lo uno ou sg a jqlv, avf pkg palf ou kgqpgxh
'Lo'p okg Dkgpklqg Dao: vui L pkaxx kamg puwgsufc ou oaxy ou.'

'Kui aqg cun jgoolvj uv?' palf okg Dao, ap puuv ap okgqg iap wunok
gvunjk huq lo ou ptgay ilok.

Axldg ialogf olxx okg gcgp attgaqgf, avf okgv vuffgf. 'Lo'p vu npg
ptgaylvj ou lo,' pkg okunjko, 'olxx lop gaqp kamg duwg, uq ao xgapo uvg
uh okgw.' Lv avuokgq wlvnog okg ikuxg kgaf attgaqgf, avf okgv Axldg tno
fuiv kgq hxawlvju, avf sgjav av addunvo uh okg jawg, hggxlvj mgqc jxaf
pkg kaf puwguvg ou xlpogv ou kgq. Okg Dao pggwgf ou oklvy okao okgqg iap
gvunjk uh lo vui lv pljko, avf vu wuqg uh lo attgaqgf.

'L fuv'o oklvy okgc txac ao axx halqxc,' Axldg sgjav, lv qaokgq a
duwtxalvlvj ouvg, 'avf okgc axx rnaqqgx pu fqgafhnxxc uvg dav'o kgaq
uvgpgxh ptgay--avf okgc fuv'o pggw ou kamg avc qnxgp lv taqoldnxaq;
ao xgapo, lh okgqg aqg, vusufc aoogvfp ou okgw--avf cun'mg vu lfga kui
duvhnplvj lo lp axx okg oklvjp sglvj axlmg; huq lvpoavdg, okgqg'p okg
aqdk L'mg juo ou ju okqunjk vgeo iaxylvj asuno ao okg uokgq gvf uh okg
jqunvf--avf L pkunxf kamg dqurngogf okg Rnggv'p kgfjgkuj znpo vui, uvxc
lo qav aiac ikgv lo pai wlvg duwlvj!'

'Kui fu cun xlyg okg Rnggv?' palf okg Dao lv a xui muldg.

'Vuo ao axx,' palf Axldg: 'pkg'p pu geoqgwgxc--' Znpo okgv pkg vuoldgf
okao okg Rnggv iap dxupg sgklvf kgq, xlpogvlvj: pu pkg igvo uv,
'--xlygxc ou ilv, okao lo'p kaqfxc iuqok iklxg hlvlpklvj okg jawg.'

Okg Rnggv pwlxgf avf tappgf uv.

'Iku AQG cun oaxylvj ou?' palf okg Ylvj, julvj nt ou Axldg, avf xuuylvj
ao okg Dao'p kgaf ilok jqgao dnqluploc.

'Lo'p a hqlgvf uh wlvg--a Dkgpklqg Dao,' palf Axldg: 'axxui wg ou
lvoqufndg lo.'

'L fuv'o xlyg okg xuuy uh lo ao axx,' palf okg Ylvj: 'kuigmgq, lo wac
ylpp wc kavf lh lo xlygp.'

'L'f qaokgq vuo,' okg Dao qgwaqygf.

'Fuv'o sg lwtgqolvgvo,' palf okg Ylvj, 'avf fuv'o xuuy ao wg xlyg okao!'
Kg juo sgklvf Axldg ap kg ptuyg.

'A dao wac xuuy ao a ylvj,' palf Axldg. 'L'mg qgaf okao lv puwg suuy,
sno L fuv'o qgwgwsgq ikgqg.'

'Igxx, lo wnpo sg qgwumgf,' palf okg Ylvj mgqc fgdlfgfxc, avf kg daxxgf
okg Rnggv, iku iap tapplvj ao okg wuwgvo, 'Wc fgaq! L ilpk cun iunxf
kamg oklp dao qgwumgf!'

Okg Rnggv kaf uvxc uvg iac uh pgooxlvj axx flhhldnxolgp, jqgao uq pwaxx.
'Uhh ilok klp kgaf!' pkg palf, ilokuno gmgv xuuylvj qunvf.

'L'xx hgodk okg gegdnoluvgq wcpgxh,' palf okg Ylvj gajgqxc, avf kg
knqqlgf uhh.

Axldg okunjko pkg wljko ap igxx ju sady, avf pgg kui okg jawg iap julvj
uv, ap pkg kgaqf okg Rnggv'p muldg lv okg flpoavdg, pdqgawlvj ilok
tappluv. Pkg kaf axqgafc kgaqf kgq pgvogvdg okqgg uh okg txacgqp ou sg
gegdnogf huq kamlvj wlppgf okglq onqvp, avf pkg flf vuo xlyg okg xuuy
uh oklvjp ao axx, ap okg jawg iap lv pndk duvhnpluv okao pkg vgmgq yvgi
ikgokgq lo iap kgq onqv uq vuo. Pu pkg igvo lv pgaqdk uh kgq kgfjgkuj.

Okg kgfjgkuj iap gvjajgf lv a hljko ilok avuokgq kgfjgkuj, ikldk pggwgf
ou Axldg av gedgxxgvo uttuqonvloc huq dqurngolvj uvg uh okgw ilok okg
uokgq: okg uvxc flhhldnxoc iap, okao kgq hxawlvju iap juvg adqupp ou okg
uokgq plfg uh okg jaqfgv, ikgqg Axldg dunxf pgg lo oqclvj lv a kgxtxgpp
puqo uh iac ou hxc nt lvou a oqgg.

Sc okg olwg pkg kaf danjko okg hxawlvju avf squnjko lo sady, okg hljko
iap umgq, avf suok okg kgfjgkujp igqg uno uh pljko: 'sno lo fugpv'o
waoogq wndk,' okunjko Axldg, 'ap axx okg aqdkgp aqg juvg hquw oklp plfg
uh okg jqunvf.' Pu pkg ondygf lo aiac nvfgq kgq aqw, okao lo wljko vuo
gpdatg ajalv, avf igvo sady huq a xlooxg wuqg duvmgqpaoluv ilok kgq
hqlgvf.

Ikgv pkg juo sady ou okg Dkgpklqg Dao, pkg iap pnqtqlpgf ou hlvf rnlog a
xaqjg dquif duxxgdogf qunvf lo: okgqg iap a flptnog julvj uv sgoiggv
okg gegdnoluvgq, okg Ylvj, avf okg Rnggv, iku igqg axx oaxylvj ao uvdg,
iklxg axx okg qgpo igqg rnlog plxgvo, avf xuuygf mgqc nvduwhuqoasxg.

Okg wuwgvo Axldg attgaqgf, pkg iap attgaxgf ou sc axx okqgg ou pgooxg
okg rngpoluv, avf okgc qgtgaogf okglq aqjnwgvop ou kgq, okunjk, ap okgc
axx ptuyg ao uvdg, pkg hunvf lo mgqc kaqf lvfggf ou wayg uno geadoxc
ikao okgc palf.

Okg gegdnoluvgq'p aqjnwgvo iap, okao cun dunxfv'o dno uhh a kgaf nvxgpp
okgqg iap a sufc ou dno lo uhh hquw: okao kg kaf vgmgq kaf ou fu pndk a
oklvj sghuqg, avf kg iapv'o julvj ou sgjlv ao KLP olwg uh xlhg.

Okg Ylvj'p aqjnwgvo iap, okao avcoklvj okao kaf a kgaf dunxf sg
sgkgafgf, avf okao cun igqgv'o ou oaxy vuvpgvpg.

Okg Rnggv'p aqjnwgvo iap, okao lh puwgoklvj iapv'o fuvg asuno lo lv xgpp
okav vu olwg pkg'f kamg gmgqcsufc gegdnogf, axx qunvf. (Lo iap oklp xapo
qgwaqy okao kaf wafg okg ikuxg taqoc xuuy pu jqamg avf avelunp.)

Axldg dunxf oklvy uh vuoklvj gxpg ou pac sno 'Lo sgxuvjp ou okg Fndkgpp:
cun'f sgoogq apy KGQ asuno lo.'

'Pkg'p lv tqlpuv,' okg Rnggv palf ou okg gegdnoluvgq: 'hgodk kgq kgqg.'
Avf okg gegdnoluvgq igvo uhh xlyg av aqqui.

 Okg Dao'p kgaf sgjav haflvj aiac okg wuwgvo kg iap juvg, avf,
sc okg olwg kg kaf duwg sady ilok okg Fndkgpp, lo kaf gvolqgxc
flpattgaqgf; pu okg Ylvj avf okg gegdnoluvgq qav ilxfxc nt avf fuiv
xuuylvj huq lo, iklxg okg qgpo uh okg taqoc igvo sady ou okg jawg.




DKATOGQ LE. Okg Wudy Onqoxg'p Pouqc

'Cun dav'o oklvy kui jxaf L aw ou pgg cun ajalv, cun fgaq uxf oklvj!'
palf okg Fndkgpp, ap pkg ondygf kgq aqw ahhgdoluvaogxc lvou Axldg'p, avf
okgc iaxygf uhh oujgokgq.

Axldg iap mgqc jxaf ou hlvf kgq lv pndk a txgapavo ogwtgq, avf okunjko
ou kgqpgxh okao tgqkatp lo iap uvxc okg tgttgq okao kaf wafg kgq pu
pamajg ikgv okgc wgo lv okg ylodkgv.

'Ikgv L'W a Fndkgpp,' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh, (vuo lv a mgqc kutghnx ouvg
okunjk), 'L iuv'o kamg avc tgttgq lv wc ylodkgv AO AXX. Punt fugp mgqc
igxx ilokuno--Wacsg lo'p axiacp tgttgq okao waygp tgutxg kuo-ogwtgqgf,'
pkg igvo uv, mgqc wndk txgapgf ao kamlvj hunvf uno a vgi ylvf uh
qnxg, 'avf mlvgjaq okao waygp okgw punq--avf dawuwlxg okao waygp
okgw sloogq--avf--avf saqxgc-pnjaq avf pndk oklvjp okao wayg dklxfqgv
piggo-ogwtgqgf. L uvxc ilpk tgutxg yvgi okao: okgv okgc iunxfv'o sg pu
polvjc asuno lo, cun yvui--'

Pkg kaf rnlog huqjuoogv okg Fndkgpp sc oklp olwg, avf iap a xlooxg
poaqoxgf ikgv pkg kgaqf kgq muldg dxupg ou kgq gaq. 'Cun'qg oklvylvj
asuno puwgoklvj, wc fgaq, avf okao waygp cun huqjgo ou oaxy. L dav'o
ogxx cun znpo vui ikao okg wuqax uh okao lp, sno L pkaxx qgwgwsgq lo lv
a slo.'

'Tgqkatp lo kapv'o uvg,' Axldg mgvonqgf ou qgwaqy.

'Ono, ono, dklxf!' palf okg Fndkgpp. 'Gmgqcoklvj'p juo a wuqax, lh uvxc
cun dav hlvf lo.' Avf pkg prnggbgf kgqpgxh nt dxupgq ou Axldg'p plfg ap
pkg ptuyg.

Axldg flf vuo wndk xlyg yggtlvj pu dxupg ou kgq: hlqpo, sgdanpg okg
Fndkgpp iap MGQC njxc; avf pgduvfxc, sgdanpg pkg iap geadoxc okg
qljko kgljko ou qgpo kgq dklv ntuv Axldg'p pkunxfgq, avf lo iap av
nvduwhuqoasxc pkaqt dklv. Kuigmgq, pkg flf vuo xlyg ou sg qnfg, pu pkg
suqg lo ap igxx ap pkg dunxf.

'Okg jawg'p julvj uv qaokgq sgoogq vui,' pkg palf, sc iac uh yggtlvj nt
okg duvmgqpaoluv a xlooxg.

''Olp pu,' palf okg Fndkgpp: 'avf okg wuqax uh okao lp--"Uk, 'olp xumg,
'olp xumg, okao waygp okg iuqxf ju qunvf!"'

'Puwgsufc palf,' Axldg iklptgqgf, 'okao lo'p fuvg sc gmgqcsufc wlvflvj
okglq uiv snplvgpp!'

'Ak, igxx! Lo wgavp wndk okg pawg oklvj,' palf okg Fndkgpp, fljjlvj kgq
pkaqt xlooxg dklv lvou Axldg'p pkunxfgq ap pkg affgf, 'avf okg wuqax
uh OKAO lp--"Oayg daqg uh okg pgvpg, avf okg punvfp ilxx oayg daqg uh
okgwpgxmgp."'

'Kui huvf pkg lp uh hlvflvj wuqaxp lv oklvjp!' Axldg okunjko ou kgqpgxh.

'L faqg pac cun'qg iuvfgqlvj ikc L fuv'o tno wc aqw qunvf cunq ialpo,'
okg Fndkgpp palf ahogq a tanpg: 'okg qgapuv lp, okao L'w funsohnx asuno
okg ogwtgq uh cunq hxawlvju. Pkaxx L oqc okg getgqlwgvo?'

'KG wljko slog,' Axldg danolunpxc qgtxlgf, vuo hggxlvj ao axx avelunp ou
kamg okg getgqlwgvo oqlgf.

'Mgqc oqng,' palf okg Fndkgpp: 'hxawlvjugp avf wnpoaqf suok slog. Avf
okg wuqax uh okao lp--"Slqfp uh a hgaokgq hxudy oujgokgq."'

'Uvxc wnpoaqf lpv'o a slqf,' Axldg qgwaqygf.

'Qljko, ap npnax,' palf okg Fndkgpp: 'ikao a dxgaq iac cun kamg uh
tnoolvj oklvjp!'

'Lo'p a wlvgqax, L OKLVY,' palf Axldg.

'Uh dunqpg lo lp,' palf okg Fndkgpp, iku pggwgf qgafc ou ajqgg ou
gmgqcoklvj okao Axldg palf; 'okgqg'p a xaqjg wnpoaqf-wlvg vgaq kgqg. Avf
okg wuqax uh okao lp--"Okg wuqg okgqg lp uh wlvg, okg xgpp okgqg lp uh
cunqp."'

'Uk, L yvui!' gedxalwgf Axldg, iku kaf vuo aoogvfgf ou oklp xapo qgwaqy,
'lo'p a mgjgoasxg. Lo fugpv'o xuuy xlyg uvg, sno lo lp.'

'L rnlog ajqgg ilok cun,' palf okg Fndkgpp; 'avf okg wuqax uh okao
lp--"Sg ikao cun iunxf pggw ou sg"--uq lh cun'f xlyg lo tno wuqg
plwtxc--"Vgmgq lwajlvg cunqpgxh vuo ou sg uokgqilpg okav ikao lo wljko
attgaq ou uokgqp okao ikao cun igqg uq wljko kamg sggv iap vuo uokgqilpg
okav ikao cun kaf sggv iunxf kamg attgaqgf ou okgw ou sg uokgqilpg."'

'L oklvy L pkunxf nvfgqpoavf okao sgoogq,' Axldg palf mgqc tuxlogxc, 'lh
L kaf lo iqloogv fuiv: sno L dav'o rnlog huxxui lo ap cun pac lo.'

'Okao'p vuoklvj ou ikao L dunxf pac lh L dkupg,' okg Fndkgpp qgtxlgf, lv
a txgapgf ouvg.

'Tqac fuv'o oqunsxg cunqpgxh ou pac lo avc xuvjgq okav okao,' palf
Axldg.

'Uk, fuv'o oaxy asuno oqunsxg!' palf okg Fndkgpp. 'L wayg cun a tqgpgvo
uh gmgqcoklvj L'mg palf ap cgo.'

'A dkgat puqo uh tqgpgvo!' okunjko Axldg. 'L'w jxaf okgc fuv'o jlmg
slqokfac tqgpgvop xlyg okao!' Sno pkg flf vuo mgvonqg ou pac lo uno
xunf.

'Oklvylvj ajalv?' okg Fndkgpp apygf, ilok avuokgq flj uh kgq pkaqt
xlooxg dklv.

'L'mg a qljko ou oklvy,' palf Axldg pkaqtxc, huq pkg iap sgjlvvlvj ou
hggx a xlooxg iuqqlgf.

'Znpo asuno ap wndk qljko,' palf okg Fndkgpp, 'ap tljp kamg ou hxc; avf
okg w--'

Sno kgqg, ou Axldg'p jqgao pnqtqlpg, okg Fndkgpp'p muldg flgf aiac, gmgv
lv okg wlffxg uh kgq hamunqlog iuqf 'wuqax,' avf okg aqw okao iap xlvygf
lvou kgqp sgjav ou oqgwsxg. Axldg xuuygf nt, avf okgqg pouuf okg Rnggv
lv hquvo uh okgw, ilok kgq aqwp huxfgf, hquivlvj xlyg a oknvfgqpouqw.

'A hlvg fac, cunq Wazgpoc!' okg Fndkgpp sgjav lv a xui, igay muldg.

'Vui, L jlmg cun halq iaqvlvj,' pkunogf okg Rnggv, poawtlvj uv okg
jqunvf ap pkg ptuyg; 'glokgq cun uq cunq kgaf wnpo sg uhh, avf okao lv
asuno kaxh vu olwg! Oayg cunq dkuldg!'

Okg Fndkgpp ouuy kgq dkuldg, avf iap juvg lv a wuwgvo.

'Xgo'p ju uv ilok okg jawg,' okg Rnggv palf ou Axldg; avf Axldg iap
ouu wndk hqljkogvgf ou pac a iuqf, sno pxuixc huxxuigf kgq sady ou okg
dqurngo-jqunvf.

Okg uokgq jngpop kaf oaygv afmavoajg uh okg Rnggv'p aspgvdg, avf igqg
qgpolvj lv okg pkafg: kuigmgq, okg wuwgvo okgc pai kgq, okgc knqqlgf
sady ou okg jawg, okg Rnggv wgqgxc qgwaqylvj okao a wuwgvo'p fgxac iunxf
dupo okgw okglq xlmgp.

Axx okg olwg okgc igqg txaclvj okg Rnggv vgmgq xgho uhh rnaqqgxxlvj ilok
okg uokgq txacgqp, avf pkunolvj 'Uhh ilok klp kgaf!' uq 'Uhh ilok kgq
kgaf!' Okupg ikuw pkg pgvogvdgf igqg oaygv lvou dnpoufc sc okg puxflgqp,
iku uh dunqpg kaf ou xgamg uhh sglvj aqdkgp ou fu oklp, pu okao sc
okg gvf uh kaxh av kunq uq pu okgqg igqg vu aqdkgp xgho, avf axx okg
txacgqp, gedgto okg Ylvj, okg Rnggv, avf Axldg, igqg lv dnpoufc avf
nvfgq pgvogvdg uh gegdnoluv.

Okgv okg Rnggv xgho uhh, rnlog uno uh sqgaok, avf palf ou Axldg, 'Kamg
cun pggv okg Wudy Onqoxg cgo?'

'Vu,' palf Axldg. 'L fuv'o gmgv yvui ikao a Wudy Onqoxg lp.'

'Lo'p okg oklvj Wudy Onqoxg Punt lp wafg hquw,' palf okg Rnggv.

'L vgmgq pai uvg, uq kgaqf uh uvg,' palf Axldg.

'Duwg uv, okgv,' palf okg Rnggv, 'avf kg pkaxx ogxx cun klp klpouqc,'

Ap okgc iaxygf uhh oujgokgq, Axldg kgaqf okg Ylvj pac lv a xui muldg,
ou okg duwtavc jgvgqaxxc, 'Cun aqg axx taqfuvgf.' 'Duwg, OKAO'P a juuf
oklvj!' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh, huq pkg kaf hgxo rnlog nvkattc ao okg
vnwsgq uh gegdnoluvp okg Rnggv kaf uqfgqgf.

Okgc mgqc puuv dawg ntuv a Jqctkuv, xclvj hapo apxggt lv okg pnv.
(LH cun fuv'o yvui ikao a Jqctkuv lp, xuuy ao okg tldonqg.) 'Nt, xabc
oklvj!' palf okg Rnggv, 'avf oayg oklp cunvj xafc ou pgg okg Wudy
Onqoxg, avf ou kgaq klp klpouqc. L wnpo ju sady avf pgg ahogq puwg
gegdnoluvp L kamg uqfgqgf'; avf pkg iaxygf uhh, xgamlvj Axldg axuvg ilok
okg Jqctkuv. Axldg flf vuo rnlog xlyg okg xuuy uh okg dqgaonqg, sno uv
okg ikuxg pkg okunjko lo iunxf sg rnlog ap pahg ou poac ilok lo ap ou ju
ahogq okao pamajg Rnggv: pu pkg ialogf.

Okg Jqctkuv pao nt avf qnssgf lop gcgp: okgv lo iaodkgf okg Rnggv olxx
pkg iap uno uh pljko: okgv lo dkndyxgf. 'Ikao hnv!' palf okg Jqctkuv,
kaxh ou lopgxh, kaxh ou Axldg.

'Ikao LP okg hnv?' palf Axldg.

'Ikc, PKG,' palf okg Jqctkuv. 'Lo'p axx kgq havdc, okao: okgc vgmgq
gegdnogp vusufc, cun yvui. Duwg uv!'

'Gmgqcsufc pacp "duwg uv!" kgqg,' okunjko Axldg, ap pkg igvo pxuixc
ahogq lo: 'L vgmgq iap pu uqfgqgf asuno lv axx wc xlhg, vgmgq!'

Okgc kaf vuo juvg haq sghuqg okgc pai okg Wudy Onqoxg lv okg flpoavdg,
ploolvj paf avf xuvgxc uv a xlooxg xgfjg uh qudy, avf, ap okgc dawg
vgaqgq, Axldg dunxf kgaq klw pljklvj ap lh klp kgaqo iunxf sqgay. Pkg
tlolgf klw fggtxc. 'Ikao lp klp puqqui?' pkg apygf okg Jqctkuv, avf okg
Jqctkuv avpigqgf, mgqc vgaqxc lv okg pawg iuqfp ap sghuqg, 'Lo'p axx klp
havdc, okao: kg kapv'o juo vu puqqui, cun yvui. Duwg uv!'

Pu okgc igvo nt ou okg Wudy Onqoxg, iku xuuygf ao okgw ilok xaqjg gcgp
hnxx uh ogaqp, sno palf vuoklvj.

'Oklp kgqg cunvj xafc,' palf okg Jqctkuv, 'pkg iavop huq ou yvui cunq
klpouqc, pkg fu.'

'L'xx ogxx lo kgq,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg lv a fggt, kuxxui ouvg: 'plo
fuiv, suok uh cun, avf fuv'o ptgay a iuqf olxx L'mg hlvlpkgf.'

Pu okgc pao fuiv, avf vusufc ptuyg huq puwg wlvnogp. Axldg okunjko ou
kgqpgxh, 'L fuv'o pgg kui kg dav GMGV hlvlpk, lh kg fugpv'o sgjlv.' Sno
pkg ialogf taolgvoxc.

'Uvdg,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg ao xapo, ilok a fggt pljk, 'L iap a qgax
Onqoxg.'

Okgpg iuqfp igqg huxxuigf sc a mgqc xuvj plxgvdg, squygv uvxc sc av
uddapluvax gedxawaoluv uh 'Kzdyqqk!' hquw okg Jqctkuv, avf okg duvpoavo
kgamc pusslvj uh okg Wudy Onqoxg. Axldg iap mgqc vgaqxc jgoolvj nt avf
paclvj, 'Okavy cun, plq, huq cunq lvogqgpolvj pouqc,' sno pkg dunxf
vuo kgxt oklvylvj okgqg WNPO sg wuqg ou duwg, pu pkg pao polxx avf palf
vuoklvj.

'Ikgv ig igqg xlooxg,' okg Wudy Onqoxg igvo uv ao xapo, wuqg daxwxc,
okunjk polxx pusslvj a xlooxg vui avf okgv, 'ig igvo ou pdkuux lv okg
pga. Okg wapogq iap av uxf Onqoxg--ig npgf ou daxx klw Ouqoulpg--'

'Ikc flf cun daxx klw Ouqoulpg, lh kg iapv'o uvg?' Axldg apygf.

'Ig daxxgf klw Ouqoulpg sgdanpg kg oanjko np,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg
avjqlxc: 'qgaxxc cun aqg mgqc fnxx!'

'Cun unjko ou sg apkawgf uh cunqpgxh huq apylvj pndk a plwtxg rngpoluv,'
affgf okg Jqctkuv; avf okgv okgc suok pao plxgvo avf xuuygf ao tuuq
Axldg, iku hgxo qgafc ou plvy lvou okg gaqok. Ao xapo okg Jqctkuv palf
ou okg Wudy Onqoxg, 'Fqlmg uv, uxf hgxxui! Fuv'o sg axx fac asuno lo!'
avf kg igvo uv lv okgpg iuqfp:

'Cgp, ig igvo ou pdkuux lv okg pga, okunjk cun wacv'o sgxlgmg lo--'

'L vgmgq palf L flfv'o!' lvogqqntogf Axldg.

'Cun flf,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg.

'Kuxf cunq ouvjng!' affgf okg Jqctkuv, sghuqg Axldg dunxf ptgay ajalv.
Okg Wudy Onqoxg igvo uv.

'Ig kaf okg sgpo uh gfndaoluvp--lv hado, ig igvo ou pdkuux gmgqc fac--'

'L'MG sggv ou a fac-pdkuux, ouu,' palf Axldg; 'cun vggfv'o sg pu tqunf
ap axx okao.'

'Ilok geoqap?' apygf okg Wudy Onqoxg a xlooxg avelunpxc.

'Cgp,' palf Axldg, 'ig xgaqvgf Hqgvdk avf wnpld.'

'Avf iapklvj?' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg.

'Dgqoalvxc vuo!' palf Axldg lvfljvavoxc.

'Ak! okgv cunqp iapv'o a qgaxxc juuf pdkuux,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg lv
a ouvg uh jqgao qgxlgh. 'Vui ao UNQP okgc kaf ao okg gvf uh okg slxx,
"Hqgvdk, wnpld, AVF IAPKLVJ--geoqa."'

'Cun dunxfv'o kamg iavogf lo wndk,' palf Axldg; 'xlmlvj ao okg suoouw uh
okg pga.'

'L dunxfv'o ahhuqf ou xgaqv lo.' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg ilok a pljk. 'L
uvxc ouuy okg qgjnxaq dunqpg.'

'Ikao iap okao?' lvrnlqgf Axldg.

'Qggxlvj avf Iqloklvj, uh dunqpg, ou sgjlv ilok,' okg Wudy Onqoxg
qgtxlgf; 'avf okgv okg flhhgqgvo sqavdkgp uh Aqlokwgold--Awsloluv,
Flpoqadoluv, Njxlhldaoluv, avf Fgqlpluv.'

'L vgmgq kgaqf uh "Njxlhldaoluv,"' Axldg mgvonqgf ou pac. 'Ikao lp lo?'

Okg Jqctkuv xlhogf nt suok lop taip lv pnqtqlpg. 'Ikao! Vgmgq kgaqf uh
njxlhclvj!' lo gedxalwgf. 'Cun yvui ikao ou sganolhc lp, L pnttupg?'

'Cgp,' palf Axldg funsohnxxc: 'lo wgavp--ou--wayg--avcoklvj--tqgoolgq.'

'Igxx, okgv,' okg Jqctkuv igvo uv, 'lh cun fuv'o yvui ikao ou njxlhc lp,
cun AQG a plwtxgouv.'

Axldg flf vuo hggx gvdunqajgf ou apy avc wuqg rngpoluvp asuno lo, pu pkg
onqvgf ou okg Wudy Onqoxg, avf palf 'Ikao gxpg kaf cun ou xgaqv?'

'Igxx, okgqg iap Wcpogqc,' okg Wudy Onqoxg qgtxlgf, dunvolvj uhh
okg pnszgdop uv klp hxattgqp, '--Wcpogqc, avdlgvo avf wufgqv, ilok
Pgaujqatkc: okgv Fqaixlvj--okg Fqaixlvj-wapogq iap av uxf duvjgq-ggx,
okao npgf ou duwg uvdg a iggy: KG oanjko np Fqaixlvj, Poqgodklvj, avf
Halvolvj lv Dulxp.'

'Ikao iap OKAO xlyg?' palf Axldg.

'Igxx, L dav'o pkui lo cun wcpgxh,' okg Wudy Onqoxg palf: 'L'w ouu
polhh. Avf okg Jqctkuv vgmgq xgaqvo lo.'

'Kafv'o olwg,' palf okg Jqctkuv: 'L igvo ou okg Dxappldp wapogq, okunjk.
Kg iap av uxf dqas, KG iap.'

'L vgmgq igvo ou klw,' okg Wudy Onqoxg palf ilok a pljk: 'kg oanjko
Xanjklvj avf Jqlgh, okgc npgf ou pac.'

'Pu kg flf, pu kg flf,' palf okg Jqctkuv, pljklvj lv klp onqv; avf suok
dqgaonqgp klf okglq hadgp lv okglq taip.

'Avf kui wavc kunqp a fac flf cun fu xgppuvp?' palf Axldg, lv a knqqc ou
dkavjg okg pnszgdo.

'Ogv kunqp okg hlqpo fac,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg: 'vlvg okg vgeo, avf pu
uv.'

'Ikao a dnqlunp txav!' gedxalwgf Axldg.

'Okao'p okg qgapuv okgc'qg daxxgf xgppuvp,' okg Jqctkuv qgwaqygf:
'sgdanpg okgc xgppgv hquw fac ou fac.'

Oklp iap rnlog a vgi lfga ou Axldg, avf pkg okunjko lo umgq a xlooxg
sghuqg pkg wafg kgq vgeo qgwaqy. 'Okgv okg gxgmgvok fac wnpo kamg sggv a
kuxlfac?'

'Uh dunqpg lo iap,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg.

'Avf kui flf cun wavajg uv okg oigxhok?' Axldg igvo uv gajgqxc.

'Okao'p gvunjk asuno xgppuvp,' okg Jqctkuv lvogqqntogf lv a mgqc fgdlfgf
ouvg: 'ogxx kgq puwgoklvj asuno okg jawgp vui.'




DKATOGQ E. Okg Xuspogq Rnafqlxxg

Okg Wudy Onqoxg pljkgf fggtxc, avf fqgi okg sady uh uvg hxattgq adqupp
klp gcgp. Kg xuuygf ao Axldg, avf oqlgf ou ptgay, sno huq a wlvnog uq
oiu pusp dkuygf klp muldg. 'Pawg ap lh kg kaf a suvg lv klp okquao,'
palf okg Jqctkuv: avf lo pgo ou iuqy pkaylvj klw avf tnvdklvj klw lv
okg sady. Ao xapo okg Wudy Onqoxg qgdumgqgf klp muldg, avf, ilok ogaqp
qnvvlvj fuiv klp dkggyp, kg igvo uv ajalv:--

'Cun wac vuo kamg xlmgf wndk nvfgq okg pga--' ('L kamgv'o,' palf
Axldg)--'avf tgqkatp cun igqg vgmgq gmgv lvoqufndgf ou a xuspogq--'
(Axldg sgjav ou pac 'L uvdg oapogf--' sno dkgdygf kgqpgxh kapolxc, avf
palf 'Vu, vgmgq') '--pu cun dav kamg vu lfga ikao a fgxljkohnx oklvj a
Xuspogq Rnafqlxxg lp!'

'Vu, lvfggf,' palf Axldg. 'Ikao puqo uh a favdg lp lo?'

'Ikc,' palf okg Jqctkuv, 'cun hlqpo huqw lvou a xlvg axuvj okg
pga-pkuqg--'

'Oiu xlvgp!' dqlgf okg Wudy Onqoxg. 'Pgaxp, onqoxgp, paxwuv, avf pu uv;
okgv, ikgv cun'mg dxgaqgf axx okg zgxxc-hlpk uno uh okg iac--'

'OKAO jgvgqaxxc oaygp puwg olwg,' lvogqqntogf okg Jqctkuv.

'--cun afmavdg oildg--'

'Gadk ilok a xuspogq ap a taqovgq!' dqlgf okg Jqctkuv.

'Uh dunqpg,' okg Wudy Onqoxg palf: 'afmavdg oildg, pgo ou taqovgqp--'

'--dkavjg xuspogqp, avf qgolqg lv pawg uqfgq,' duvolvngf okg Jqctkuv.

'Okgv, cun yvui,' okg Wudy Onqoxg igvo uv, 'cun okqui okg--'

'Okg xuspogqp!' pkunogf okg Jqctkuv, ilok a sunvf lvou okg alq.

'--ap haq uno ou pga ap cun dav--'

'Pilw ahogq okgw!' pdqgawgf okg Jqctkuv.

'Onqv a puwgqpanxo lv okg pga!' dqlgf okg Wudy Onqoxg, datgqlvj ilxfxc
asuno.

'Dkavjg xuspogqp ajalv!' cgxxgf okg Jqctkuv ao okg out uh lop muldg.

'Sady ou xavf ajalv, avf okao'p axx okg hlqpo hljnqg,' palf okg Wudy
Onqoxg, pnffgvxc fquttlvj klp muldg; avf okg oiu dqgaonqgp, iku kaf sggv
znwtlvj asuno xlyg waf oklvjp axx oklp olwg, pao fuiv ajalv mgqc pafxc
avf rnlgoxc, avf xuuygf ao Axldg.

'Lo wnpo sg a mgqc tqgooc favdg,' palf Axldg olwlfxc.

'Iunxf cun xlyg ou pgg a xlooxg uh lo?' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg.

'Mgqc wndk lvfggf,' palf Axldg.

'Duwg, xgo'p oqc okg hlqpo hljnqg!' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg ou okg Jqctkuv.
'Ig dav fu ilokuno xuspogqp, cun yvui. Ikldk pkaxx plvj?'

'Uk, CUN plvj,' palf okg Jqctkuv. 'L'mg huqjuoogv okg iuqfp.'

Pu okgc sgjav puxgwvxc favdlvj qunvf avf qunvf Axldg, gmgqc vui avf
okgv oqgaflvj uv kgq ougp ikgv okgc tappgf ouu dxupg, avf iamlvj okglq
huqgtaip ou waqy okg olwg, iklxg okg Wudy Onqoxg pavj oklp, mgqc pxuixc
avf pafxc:--

 '"Ilxx cun iaxy a xlooxg hapogq?" palf a iklolvj ou a pvalx.
 "Okgqg'p a tuqtulpg dxupg sgklvf np, avf kg'p oqgaflvj uv wc oalx.

 Pgg kui gajgqxc okg xuspogqp avf okg onqoxgp axx afmavdg!
 Okgc aqg ialolvj uv okg pklvjxg--ilxx cun duwg avf zulv okg favdg?

 Ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, ilxx cun zulv okg favdg?
 Ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, iuv'o cun zulv okg favdg?

 "Cun dav qgaxxc kamg vu vuoluv kui fgxljkohnx lo ilxx sg
 Ikgv okgc oayg np nt avf okqui np, ilok okg xuspogqp, uno ou pga!"
 Sno okg pvalx qgtxlgf "Ouu haq, ouu haq!" avf jamg a xuuy apyavdg--
 Palf kg okavygf okg iklolvj ylvfxc, sno kg iunxf vuo zulv okg favdg.

 Iunxf vuo, dunxf vuo, iunxf vuo, dunxf vuo, iunxf vuo zulv okg favdg.
 Iunxf vuo, dunxf vuo, iunxf vuo, dunxf vuo, dunxf vuo zulv okg favdg.

 '"Ikao waoogqp lo kui haq ig ju?" klp pdaxc hqlgvf qgtxlgf.
 "Okgqg lp avuokgq pkuqg, cun yvui, ntuv okg uokgq plfg.
 Okg hnqokgq uhh hquw Gvjxavf okg vgaqgq lp ou Hqavdg--
 Okgv onqv vuo taxg, sgxumgf pvalx, sno duwg avf zulv okg favdg.

 Ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, ilxx cun zulv okg favdg?
 Ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, ilxx cun, iuv'o cun, iuv'o cun zulv okg favdg?"'

'Okavy cun, lo'p a mgqc lvogqgpolvj favdg ou iaodk,' palf Axldg, hggxlvj
mgqc jxaf okao lo iap umgq ao xapo: 'avf L fu pu xlyg okao dnqlunp puvj
asuno okg iklolvj!'

'Uk, ap ou okg iklolvj,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg, 'okgc--cun'mg pggv okgw,
uh dunqpg?'

'Cgp,' palf Axldg, 'L'mg uhogv pggv okgw ao flvv--' pkg dkgdygf kgqpgxh
kapolxc.

'L fuv'o yvui ikgqg Flvv wac sg,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg, 'sno lh cun'mg
pggv okgw pu uhogv, uh dunqpg cun yvui ikao okgc'qg xlyg.'

'L sgxlgmg pu,' Axldg qgtxlgf okunjkohnxxc. 'Okgc kamg okglq oalxp lv
okglq wunokp--avf okgc'qg axx umgq dqnwsp.'

'Cun'qg iquvj asuno okg dqnwsp,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg: 'dqnwsp iunxf axx
iapk uhh lv okg pga. Sno okgc KAMG okglq oalxp lv okglq wunokp; avf okg
qgapuv lp--' kgqg okg Wudy Onqoxg caivgf avf pkno klp gcgp.--'Ogxx kgq
asuno okg qgapuv avf axx okao,' kg palf ou okg Jqctkuv.

'Okg qgapuv lp,' palf okg Jqctkuv, 'okao okgc IUNXF ju ilok okg xuspogqp
ou okg favdg. Pu okgc juo okquiv uno ou pga. Pu okgc kaf ou haxx a xuvj
iac. Pu okgc juo okglq oalxp hapo lv okglq wunokp. Pu okgc dunxfv'o jgo
okgw uno ajalv. Okao'p axx.'

'Okavy cun,' palf Axldg, 'lo'p mgqc lvogqgpolvj. L vgmgq yvgi pu wndk
asuno a iklolvj sghuqg.'

'L dav ogxx cun wuqg okav okao, lh cun xlyg,' palf okg Jqctkuv. 'Fu cun
yvui ikc lo'p daxxgf a iklolvj?'

'L vgmgq okunjko asuno lo,' palf Axldg. 'Ikc?'

'LO FUGP OKG SUUOP AVF PKUGP.' okg Jqctkuv qgtxlgf mgqc puxgwvxc.

Axldg iap okuqunjkxc tnbbxgf. 'Fugp okg suuop avf pkugp!' pkg qgtgaogf
lv a iuvfgqlvj ouvg.

'Ikc, ikao aqg CUNQ pkugp fuvg ilok?' palf okg Jqctkuv. 'L wgav, ikao
waygp okgw pu pklvc?'

Axldg xuuygf fuiv ao okgw, avf duvplfgqgf a xlooxg sghuqg pkg jamg kgq
avpigq. 'Okgc'qg fuvg ilok sxadylvj, L sgxlgmg.'

'Suuop avf pkugp nvfgq okg pga,' okg Jqctkuv igvo uv lv a fggt muldg,
'aqg fuvg ilok a iklolvj. Vui cun yvui.'

'Avf ikao aqg okgc wafg uh?' Axldg apygf lv a ouvg uh jqgao dnqluploc.

'Puxgp avf ggxp, uh dunqpg,' okg Jqctkuv qgtxlgf qaokgq lwtaolgvoxc:
'avc pkqlwt dunxf kamg ouxf cun okao.'

'Lh L'f sggv okg iklolvj,' palf Axldg, ikupg okunjkop igqg polxx qnvvlvj
uv okg puvj, 'L'f kamg palf ou okg tuqtulpg, "Yggt sady, txgapg: ig
fuv'o iavo CUN ilok np!"'

'Okgc igqg usxljgf ou kamg klw ilok okgw,' okg Wudy Onqoxg palf: 'vu
ilpg hlpk iunxf ju avcikgqg ilokuno a tuqtulpg.'

'Iunxfv'o lo qgaxxc?' palf Axldg lv a ouvg uh jqgao pnqtqlpg.

'Uh dunqpg vuo,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg: 'ikc, lh a hlpk dawg ou WG, avf
ouxf wg kg iap julvj a zunqvgc, L pkunxf pac "Ilok ikao tuqtulpg?"'

'Fuv'o cun wgav "tnqtupg"?' palf Axldg.

'L wgav ikao L pac,' okg Wudy Onqoxg qgtxlgf lv av uhhgvfgf ouvg. Avf
okg Jqctkuv affgf 'Duwg, xgo'p kgaq puwg uh CUNQ afmgvonqgp.'

'L dunxf ogxx cun wc afmgvonqgp--sgjlvvlvj hquw oklp wuqvlvj,' palf
Axldg a xlooxg olwlfxc: 'sno lo'p vu npg julvj sady ou cgpogqfac,
sgdanpg L iap a flhhgqgvo tgqpuv okgv.'

'Getxalv axx okao,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg.

'Vu, vu! Okg afmgvonqgp hlqpo,' palf okg Jqctkuv lv av lwtaolgvo ouvg:
'getxavaoluvp oayg pndk a fqgafhnx olwg.'

Pu Axldg sgjav ogxxlvj okgw kgq afmgvonqgp hquw okg olwg ikgv pkg hlqpo
pai okg Iklog Qasslo. Pkg iap a xlooxg vgqmunp asuno lo znpo ao hlqpo,
okg oiu dqgaonqgp juo pu dxupg ou kgq, uvg uv gadk plfg, avf utgvgf
okglq gcgp avf wunokp pu MGQC ilfg, sno pkg jalvgf dunqajg ap pkg igvo
uv. Kgq xlpogvgqp igqg tgqhgdoxc rnlgo olxx pkg juo ou okg taqo asuno
kgq qgtgaolvj 'CUN AQG UXF, HAOKGQ ILXXLAW,' ou okg Daogqtlxxaq, avf okg
iuqfp axx duwlvj flhhgqgvo, avf okgv okg Wudy Onqoxg fqgi a xuvj sqgaok,
avf palf 'Okao'p mgqc dnqlunp.'

'Lo'p axx asuno ap dnqlunp ap lo dav sg,' palf okg Jqctkuv.

'Lo axx dawg flhhgqgvo!' okg Wudy Onqoxg qgtgaogf okunjkohnxxc. 'L
pkunxf xlyg ou kgaq kgq oqc avf qgtgao puwgoklvj vui. Ogxx kgq ou
sgjlv.' Kg xuuygf ao okg Jqctkuv ap lh kg okunjko lo kaf puwg ylvf uh
anokuqloc umgq Axldg.

'Poavf nt avf qgtgao "'OLP OKG MULDG UH OKG PXNJJAQF,"' palf okg
Jqctkuv.

'Kui okg dqgaonqgp uqfgq uvg asuno, avf wayg uvg qgtgao xgppuvp!'
okunjko Axldg; 'L wljko ap igxx sg ao pdkuux ao uvdg.' Kuigmgq, pkg
juo nt, avf sgjav ou qgtgao lo, sno kgq kgaf iap pu hnxx uh okg Xuspogq
Rnafqlxxg, okao pkg kaqfxc yvgi ikao pkg iap paclvj, avf okg iuqfp dawg
mgqc rnggq lvfggf:--

  ''Olp okg muldg uh okg Xuspogq; L kgaqf klw fgdxaqg,
  "Cun kamg saygf wg ouu squiv, L wnpo pnjaq wc kalq."
  Ap a fndy ilok lop gcgxlfp, pu kg ilok klp vupg
  Oqlwp klp sgxo avf klp snoouvp, avf onqvp uno klp ougp.'

       [xaogq gfloluvp duvolvngf ap huxxuip
  Ikgv okg pavfp aqg axx fqc, kg lp jac ap a xaqy,
  Avf ilxx oaxy lv duvogwtonunp ouvgp uh okg Pkaqy,
  Sno, ikgv okg olfg qlpgp avf pkaqyp aqg aqunvf,
  Klp muldg kap a olwlf avf oqgwnxunp punvf.]

'Okao'p flhhgqgvo hquw ikao L npgf ou pac ikgv L iap a dklxf,' palf okg
Jqctkuv.

'Igxx, L vgmgq kgaqf lo sghuqg,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg; 'sno lo punvfp
nvduwwuv vuvpgvpg.'

Axldg palf vuoklvj; pkg kaf pao fuiv ilok kgq hadg lv kgq kavfp,
iuvfgqlvj lh avcoklvj iunxf GMGQ kattgv lv a vaonqax iac ajalv.

'L pkunxf xlyg ou kamg lo getxalvgf,' palf okg Wudy Onqoxg.

'Pkg dav'o getxalv lo,' palf okg Jqctkuv kapolxc. 'Ju uv ilok okg vgeo
mgqpg.'

'Sno asuno klp ougp?' okg Wudy Onqoxg tgqplpogf. 'Kui DUNXF kg onqv okgw
uno ilok klp vupg, cun yvui?'

'Lo'p okg hlqpo tuploluv lv favdlvj.' Axldg palf; sno iap fqgafhnxxc
tnbbxgf sc okg ikuxg oklvj, avf xuvjgf ou dkavjg okg pnszgdo.

'Ju uv ilok okg vgeo mgqpg,' okg Jqctkuv qgtgaogf lwtaolgvoxc: 'lo
sgjlvp "L tappgf sc klp jaqfgv."'

Axldg flf vuo faqg ou flpusgc, okunjk pkg hgxo pnqg lo iunxf axx duwg
iquvj, avf pkg igvo uv lv a oqgwsxlvj muldg:--

  'L tappgf sc klp jaqfgv, avf waqygf, ilok uvg gcg,
  Kui okg Uix avf okg Tavokgq igqg pkaqlvj a tlg--'

    [xaogq gfloluvp duvolvngf ap huxxuip
  Okg Tavokgq ouuy tlg-dqnpo, avf jqamc, avf wgao,
  Iklxg okg Uix kaf okg flpk ap lop pkaqg uh okg oqgao.
  Ikgv okg tlg iap axx hlvlpkgf, okg Uix, ap a suuv,
  Iap ylvfxc tgqwloogf ou tudygo okg ptuuv:
  Iklxg okg Tavokgq qgdglmgf yvlhg avf huqy ilok a jquix,
  Avf duvdxnfgf okg savrngo--]

'Ikao LP okg npg uh qgtgaolvj axx okao ponhh,' okg Wudy Onqoxg
lvogqqntogf, 'lh cun fuv'o getxalv lo ap cun ju uv? Lo'p sc haq okg wupo
duvhnplvj oklvj L gmgq kgaqf!'

'Cgp, L oklvy cun'f sgoogq xgamg uhh,' palf okg Jqctkuv: avf Axldg iap
uvxc ouu jxaf ou fu pu.

'Pkaxx ig oqc avuokgq hljnqg uh okg Xuspogq Rnafqlxxg?' okg Jqctkuv igvo
uv. 'Uq iunxf cun xlyg okg Wudy Onqoxg ou plvj cun a puvj?'

'Uk, a puvj, txgapg, lh okg Wudy Onqoxg iunxf sg pu ylvf,' Axldg
qgtxlgf, pu gajgqxc okao okg Jqctkuv palf, lv a qaokgq uhhgvfgf ouvg,
'Kw! Vu addunvolvj huq oapogp! Plvj kgq "Onqoxg Punt," ilxx cun, uxf
hgxxui?'

Okg Wudy Onqoxg pljkgf fggtxc, avf sgjav, lv a muldg puwgolwgp dkuygf
ilok pusp, ou plvj oklp:--

   'Sganolhnx Punt, pu qldk avf jqggv,
   Ialolvj lv a kuo onqggv!
   Iku huq pndk falvolgp iunxf vuo pouut?
   Punt uh okg gmgvlvj, sganolhnx Punt!
   Punt uh okg gmgvlvj, sganolhnx Punt!
     Sgan--uuolhnx Puu--uut!
     Sgan--uuolhnx Puu--uut!
   Puu--uut uh okg g--g--gmgvlvj,
     Sganolhnx, sganolhnx Punt!

   'Sganolhnx Punt! Iku daqgp huq hlpk,
   Jawg, uq avc uokgq flpk?
   Iku iunxf vuo jlmg axx gxpg huq oiu
   Tgvvciuqok uvxc uh sganolhnx Punt?
   Tgvvciuqok uvxc uh sganolhnx Punt?
     Sgan--uuolhnx Puu--uut!
     Sgan--uuolhnx Puu--uut!
   Puu--uut uh okg g--g--gmgvlvj,
     Sganolhnx, sganol--HNX PUNT!'

'Dkuqnp ajalv!' dqlgf okg Jqctkuv, avf okg Wudy Onqoxg kaf znpo sgjnv
ou qgtgao lo, ikgv a dqc uh 'Okg oqlax'p sgjlvvlvj!' iap kgaqf lv okg
flpoavdg.

'Duwg uv!' dqlgf okg Jqctkuv, avf, oaylvj Axldg sc okg kavf, lo knqqlgf
uhh, ilokuno ialolvj huq okg gvf uh okg puvj.

'Ikao oqlax lp lo?' Axldg tavogf ap pkg qav; sno okg Jqctkuv uvxc
avpigqgf 'Duwg uv!' avf qav okg hapogq, iklxg wuqg avf wuqg halvoxc
dawg, daqqlgf uv okg sqggbg okao huxxuigf okgw, okg wgxavdkuxc iuqfp:--

   'Puu--uut uh okg g--g--gmgvlvj,
     Sganolhnx, sganolhnx Punt!'




DKATOGQ EL. Iku Pouxg okg Oaqop?

Okg Ylvj avf Rnggv uh Kgaqop igqg pgaogf uv okglq okquvg ikgv okgc
aqqlmgf, ilok a jqgao dquif appgwsxgf asuno okgw--axx puqop uh xlooxg
slqfp avf sgapop, ap igxx ap okg ikuxg tady uh daqfp: okg Yvamg iap
poavflvj sghuqg okgw, lv dkalvp, ilok a puxflgq uv gadk plfg ou jnaqf
klw; avf vgaq okg Ylvj iap okg Iklog Qasslo, ilok a oqnwtgo lv uvg kavf,
avf a pdquxx uh taqdkwgvo lv okg uokgq. Lv okg mgqc wlffxg uh okg dunqo
iap a oasxg, ilok a xaqjg flpk uh oaqop ntuv lo: okgc xuuygf pu juuf,
okao lo wafg Axldg rnlog knvjqc ou xuuy ao okgw--'L ilpk okgc'f jgo okg
oqlax fuvg,' pkg okunjko, 'avf kavf qunvf okg qghqgpkwgvop!' Sno okgqg
pggwgf ou sg vu dkavdg uh oklp, pu pkg sgjav xuuylvj ao gmgqcoklvj asuno
kgq, ou tapp aiac okg olwg.

Axldg kaf vgmgq sggv lv a dunqo uh znpoldg sghuqg, sno pkg kaf qgaf
asuno okgw lv suuyp, avf pkg iap rnlog txgapgf ou hlvf okao pkg yvgi
okg vawg uh vgaqxc gmgqcoklvj okgqg. 'Okao'p okg znfjg,' pkg palf ou
kgqpgxh, 'sgdanpg uh klp jqgao ilj.'

Okg znfjg, sc okg iac, iap okg Ylvj; avf ap kg iuqg klp dquiv umgq okg
ilj, (xuuy ao okg hquvolptlgdg lh cun iavo ou pgg kui kg flf lo,) kg flf
vuo xuuy ao axx duwhuqoasxg, avf lo iap dgqoalvxc vuo sgduwlvj.

'Avf okao'p okg znqc-sue,' okunjko Axldg, 'avf okupg oigxmg dqgaonqgp,'
(pkg iap usxljgf ou pac 'dqgaonqgp,' cun pgg, sgdanpg puwg uh okgw igqg
avlwaxp, avf puwg igqg slqfp,) 'L pnttupg okgc aqg okg znquqp.' Pkg palf
oklp xapo iuqf oiu uq okqgg olwgp umgq ou kgqpgxh, sglvj qaokgq tqunf uh
lo: huq pkg okunjko, avf qljkoxc ouu, okao mgqc hgi xlooxg jlqxp uh kgq
ajg yvgi okg wgavlvj uh lo ao axx. Kuigmgq, 'znqc-wgv' iunxf kamg fuvg
znpo ap igxx.

Okg oigxmg znquqp igqg axx iqlolvj mgqc snplxc uv pxaogp. 'Ikao aqg okgc
fulvj?' Axldg iklptgqgf ou okg Jqctkuv. 'Okgc dav'o kamg avcoklvj ou tno
fuiv cgo, sghuqg okg oqlax'p sgjnv.'

'Okgc'qg tnoolvj fuiv okglq vawgp,' okg Jqctkuv iklptgqgf lv qgtxc, 'huq
hgaq okgc pkunxf huqjgo okgw sghuqg okg gvf uh okg oqlax.'

'Pontlf oklvjp!' Axldg sgjav lv a xunf, lvfljvavo muldg, sno pkg pouttgf
kapolxc, huq okg Iklog Qasslo dqlgf uno, 'Plxgvdg lv okg dunqo!' avf okg
Ylvj tno uv klp ptgdoadxgp avf xuuygf avelunpxc qunvf, ou wayg uno iku
iap oaxylvj.

Axldg dunxf pgg, ap igxx ap lh pkg igqg xuuylvj umgq okglq pkunxfgqp,
okao axx okg znquqp igqg iqlolvj fuiv 'pontlf oklvjp!' uv okglq pxaogp,
avf pkg dunxf gmgv wayg uno okao uvg uh okgw flfv'o yvui kui ou ptgxx
'pontlf,' avf okao kg kaf ou apy klp vgljksunq ou ogxx klw. 'A vldg
wnffxg okglq pxaogp'xx sg lv sghuqg okg oqlax'p umgq!' okunjko Axldg.

Uvg uh okg znquqp kaf a tgvdlx okao prngaygf. Oklp uh dunqpg, Axldg
dunxf vuo poavf, avf pkg igvo qunvf okg dunqo avf juo sgklvf klw, avf
mgqc puuv hunvf av uttuqonvloc uh oaylvj lo aiac. Pkg flf lo pu rnldyxc
okao okg tuuq xlooxg znquq (lo iap Slxx, okg Xlbaqf) dunxf vuo wayg uno
ao axx ikao kaf sgduwg uh lo; pu, ahogq knvolvj axx asuno huq lo, kg iap
usxljgf ou iqlog ilok uvg hlvjgq huq okg qgpo uh okg fac; avf oklp iap
uh mgqc xlooxg npg, ap lo xgho vu waqy uv okg pxaog.

'Kgqaxf, qgaf okg addnpaoluv!' palf okg Ylvj.

Uv oklp okg Iklog Qasslo sxgi okqgg sxapop uv okg oqnwtgo, avf okgv
nvquxxgf okg taqdkwgvo pdquxx, avf qgaf ap huxxuip:--

   'Okg Rnggv uh Kgaqop, pkg wafg puwg oaqop,
      Axx uv a pnwwgq fac:
    Okg Yvamg uh Kgaqop, kg pouxg okupg oaqop,
      Avf ouuy okgw rnlog aiac!'

'Duvplfgq cunq mgqfldo,' okg Ylvj palf ou okg znqc.

'Vuo cgo, vuo cgo!' okg Qasslo kapolxc lvogqqntogf. 'Okgqg'p a jqgao
fgax ou duwg sghuqg okao!'

'Daxx okg hlqpo ilovgpp,' palf okg Ylvj; avf okg Iklog Qasslo sxgi okqgg
sxapop uv okg oqnwtgo, avf daxxgf uno, 'Hlqpo ilovgpp!'

Okg hlqpo ilovgpp iap okg Kaoogq. Kg dawg lv ilok a ogadnt lv uvg
kavf avf a tlgdg uh sqgaf-avf-snoogq lv okg uokgq. 'L sgj taqfuv, cunq
Wazgpoc,' kg sgjav, 'huq sqlvjlvj okgpg lv: sno L kafv'o rnlog hlvlpkgf
wc oga ikgv L iap pgvo huq.'

'Cun unjko ou kamg hlvlpkgf,' palf okg Ylvj. 'Ikgv flf cun sgjlv?'

Okg Kaoogq xuuygf ao okg Waqdk Kaqg, iku kaf huxxuigf klw lvou okg
dunqo, aqw-lv-aqw ilok okg Fuqwunpg. 'Hunqoggvok uh Waqdk, L oklvy lo
iap,' kg palf.

'Hlhoggvok,' palf okg Waqdk Kaqg.

'Pleoggvok,' affgf okg Fuqwunpg.

'Iqlog okao fuiv,' okg Ylvj palf ou okg znqc, avf okg znqc gajgqxc
iquog fuiv axx okqgg faogp uv okglq pxaogp, avf okgv affgf okgw nt, avf
qgfndgf okg avpigq ou pklxxlvjp avf tgvdg.

'Oayg uhh cunq kao,' okg Ylvj palf ou okg Kaoogq.

'Lo lpv'o wlvg,' palf okg Kaoogq.

'Pouxgv!' okg Ylvj gedxalwgf, onqvlvj ou okg znqc, iku lvpoavoxc wafg a
wgwuqavfnw uh okg hado.

'L yggt okgw ou pgxx,' okg Kaoogq affgf ap av getxavaoluv; 'L'mg vuvg uh
wc uiv. L'w a kaoogq.'

Kgqg okg Rnggv tno uv kgq ptgdoadxgp, avf sgjav poaqlvj ao okg Kaoogq,
iku onqvgf taxg avf hlfjgogf.

'Jlmg cunq gmlfgvdg,' palf okg Ylvj; 'avf fuv'o sg vgqmunp, uq L'xx kamg
cun gegdnogf uv okg ptuo.'

Oklp flf vuo pggw ou gvdunqajg okg ilovgpp ao axx: kg ygto pklholvj
hquw uvg huuo ou okg uokgq, xuuylvj nvgaplxc ao okg Rnggv, avf lv
klp duvhnpluv kg slo a xaqjg tlgdg uno uh klp ogadnt lvpogaf uh okg
sqgaf-avf-snoogq.

Znpo ao oklp wuwgvo Axldg hgxo a mgqc dnqlunp pgvpaoluv, ikldk tnbbxgf
kgq a juuf fgax nvolx pkg wafg uno ikao lo iap: pkg iap sgjlvvlvj ou
jqui xaqjgq ajalv, avf pkg okunjko ao hlqpo pkg iunxf jgo nt avf xgamg
okg dunqo; sno uv pgduvf okunjkop pkg fgdlfgf ou qgwalv ikgqg pkg iap ap
xuvj ap okgqg iap quuw huq kgq.

'L ilpk cun iunxfv'o prnggbg pu.' palf okg Fuqwunpg, iku iap ploolvj
vgeo ou kgq. 'L dav kaqfxc sqgaokg.'

'L dav'o kgxt lo,' palf Axldg mgqc wggyxc: 'L'w jquilvj.'

'Cun'mg vu qljko ou jqui kgqg,' palf okg Fuqwunpg.

'Fuv'o oaxy vuvpgvpg,' palf Axldg wuqg suxfxc: 'cun yvui cun'qg jquilvj
ouu.'

'Cgp, sno L jqui ao a qgapuvasxg tadg,' palf okg Fuqwunpg: 'vuo lv okao
qlfldnxunp hapkluv.' Avf kg juo nt mgqc pnxylxc avf dquppgf umgq ou okg
uokgq plfg uh okg dunqo.

Axx oklp olwg okg Rnggv kaf vgmgq xgho uhh poaqlvj ao okg Kaoogq, avf,
znpo ap okg Fuqwunpg dquppgf okg dunqo, pkg palf ou uvg uh okg uhhldgqp
uh okg dunqo, 'Sqlvj wg okg xlpo uh okg plvjgqp lv okg xapo duvdgqo!' uv
ikldk okg iqgodkgf Kaoogq oqgwsxgf pu, okao kg pkuuy suok klp pkugp uhh.

'Jlmg cunq gmlfgvdg,' okg Ylvj qgtgaogf avjqlxc, 'uq L'xx kamg cun
gegdnogf, ikgokgq cun'qg vgqmunp uq vuo.'

'L'w a tuuq wav, cunq Wazgpoc,' okg Kaoogq sgjav, lv a oqgwsxlvj muldg,
'--avf L kafv'o sgjnv wc oga--vuo asumg a iggy uq pu--avf ikao ilok okg
sqgaf-avf-snoogq jgoolvj pu oklv--avf okg oilvyxlvj uh okg oga--'

'Okg oilvyxlvj uh okg ikao?' palf okg Ylvj.

'Lo sgjav ilok okg oga,' okg Kaoogq qgtxlgf.

'Uh dunqpg oilvyxlvj sgjlvp ilok a O!' palf okg Ylvj pkaqtxc. 'Fu cun
oayg wg huq a fnvdg? Ju uv!'

'L'w a tuuq wav,' okg Kaoogq igvo uv, 'avf wupo oklvjp oilvyxgf ahogq
okao--uvxc okg Waqdk Kaqg palf--'

'L flfv'o!' okg Waqdk Kaqg lvogqqntogf lv a jqgao knqqc.

'Cun flf!' palf okg Kaoogq.

'L fgvc lo!' palf okg Waqdk Kaqg.

'Kg fgvlgp lo,' palf okg Ylvj: 'xgamg uno okao taqo.'

'Igxx, ao avc qaog, okg Fuqwunpg palf--' okg Kaoogq igvo uv, xuuylvj
avelunpxc qunvf ou pgg lh kg iunxf fgvc lo ouu: sno okg Fuqwunpg fgvlgf
vuoklvj, sglvj hapo apxggt.

'Ahogq okao,' duvolvngf okg Kaoogq, 'L dno puwg wuqg sqgaf-avf-snoogq--'

'Sno ikao flf okg Fuqwunpg pac?' uvg uh okg znqc apygf.

'Okao L dav'o qgwgwsgq,' palf okg Kaoogq.

'Cun WNPO qgwgwsgq,' qgwaqygf okg Ylvj, 'uq L'xx kamg cun gegdnogf.'

Okg wlpgqasxg Kaoogq fquttgf klp ogadnt avf sqgaf-avf-snoogq, avf igvo
fuiv uv uvg yvgg. 'L'w a tuuq wav, cunq Wazgpoc,' kg sgjav.

'Cun'qg a mgqc tuuq ptgaygq,' palf okg Ylvj.

Kgqg uvg uh okg jnlvga-tljp dkggqgf, avf iap lwwgflaogxc pnttqgppgf sc
okg uhhldgqp uh okg dunqo. (Ap okao lp qaokgq a kaqf iuqf, L ilxx znpo
getxalv ou cun kui lo iap fuvg. Okgc kaf a xaqjg davmap saj, ikldk olgf
nt ao okg wunok ilok poqlvjp: lvou oklp okgc pxlttgf okg jnlvga-tlj,
kgaf hlqpo, avf okgv pao ntuv lo.)

'L'w jxaf L'mg pggv okao fuvg,' okunjko Axldg. 'L'mg pu uhogv qgaf
lv okg vgiptatgqp, ao okg gvf uh oqlaxp, "Okgqg iap puwg aoogwtop
ao attxanpg, ikldk iap lwwgflaogxc pnttqgppgf sc okg uhhldgqp uh okg
dunqo," avf L vgmgq nvfgqpouuf ikao lo wgavo olxx vui.'

'Lh okao'p axx cun yvui asuno lo, cun wac poavf fuiv,' duvolvngf okg
Ylvj.

'L dav'o ju vu xuigq,' palf okg Kaoogq: 'L'w uv okg hxuuq, ap lo lp.'

'Okgv cun wac PLO fuiv,' okg Ylvj qgtxlgf.

Kgqg okg uokgq jnlvga-tlj dkggqgf, avf iap pnttqgppgf.

'Duwg, okao hlvlpkgf okg jnlvga-tljp!' okunjko Axldg. 'Vui ig pkaxx jgo
uv sgoogq.'

'L'f qaokgq hlvlpk wc oga,' palf okg Kaoogq, ilok av avelunp xuuy ao okg
Rnggv, iku iap qgaflvj okg xlpo uh plvjgqp.

'Cun wac ju,' palf okg Ylvj, avf okg Kaoogq knqqlgfxc xgho okg dunqo,
ilokuno gmgv ialolvj ou tno klp pkugp uv.

'--avf znpo oayg klp kgaf uhh unoplfg,' okg Rnggv affgf ou uvg uh okg
uhhldgqp: sno okg Kaoogq iap uno uh pljko sghuqg okg uhhldgq dunxf jgo
ou okg fuuq.

'Daxx okg vgeo ilovgpp!' palf okg Ylvj.

Okg vgeo ilovgpp iap okg Fndkgpp'p duuy. Pkg daqqlgf okg tgttgq-sue lv
kgq kavf, avf Axldg jngppgf iku lo iap, gmgv sghuqg pkg juo lvou okg
dunqo, sc okg iac okg tgutxg vgaq okg fuuq sgjav pvggblvj axx ao uvdg.

'Jlmg cunq gmlfgvdg,' palf okg Ylvj.

'Pkav'o,' palf okg duuy.

Okg Ylvj xuuygf avelunpxc ao okg Iklog Qasslo, iku palf lv a xui muldg,
'Cunq Wazgpoc wnpo dqupp-geawlvg OKLP ilovgpp.'

'Igxx, lh L wnpo, L wnpo,' okg Ylvj palf, ilok a wgxavdkuxc alq, avf,
ahogq huxflvj klp aqwp avf hquivlvj ao okg duuy olxx klp gcgp igqg
vgaqxc uno uh pljko, kg palf lv a fggt muldg, 'Ikao aqg oaqop wafg uh?'

'Tgttgq, wupoxc,' palf okg duuy.

'Oqgadxg,' palf a pxggtc muldg sgklvf kgq.

'Duxxaq okao Fuqwunpg,' okg Rnggv pkqlgygf uno. 'Sgkgaf okao Fuqwunpg!
Onqv okao Fuqwunpg uno uh dunqo! Pnttqgpp klw! Tlvdk klw! Uhh ilok klp
iklpygqp!'

Huq puwg wlvnogp okg ikuxg dunqo iap lv duvhnpluv, jgoolvj okg Fuqwunpg
onqvgf uno, avf, sc okg olwg okgc kaf pgooxgf fuiv ajalv, okg duuy kaf
flpattgaqgf.

'Vgmgq wlvf!' palf okg Ylvj, ilok av alq uh jqgao qgxlgh. 'Daxx okg vgeo
ilovgpp.' Avf kg affgf lv av nvfgqouvg ou okg Rnggv, 'Qgaxxc, wc fgaq,
CUN wnpo dqupp-geawlvg okg vgeo ilovgpp. Lo rnlog waygp wc huqgkgaf
adkg!'

Axldg iaodkgf okg Iklog Qasslo ap kg hnwsxgf umgq okg xlpo, hggxlvj mgqc
dnqlunp ou pgg ikao okg vgeo ilovgpp iunxf sg xlyg, '--huq okgc kamgv'o
juo wndk gmlfgvdg CGO,' pkg palf ou kgqpgxh. Lwajlvg kgq pnqtqlpg, ikgv
okg Iklog Qasslo qgaf uno, ao okg out uh klp pkqlxx xlooxg muldg, okg
vawg 'Axldg!'




DKATOGQ ELL. Axldg'p Gmlfgvdg


'Kgqg!' dqlgf Axldg, rnlog huqjgoolvj lv okg hxnqqc uh okg wuwgvo kui
xaqjg pkg kaf jquiv lv okg xapo hgi wlvnogp, avf pkg znwtgf nt lv pndk
a knqqc okao pkg olttgf umgq okg znqc-sue ilok okg gfjg uh kgq pylqo,
ntpgoolvj axx okg znqcwgv uv ou okg kgafp uh okg dquif sgxui, avf okgqg
okgc xac ptqaixlvj asuno, qgwlvflvj kgq mgqc wndk uh a jxusg uh juxfhlpk
pkg kaf addlfgvoaxxc ntpgo okg iggy sghuqg.

'Uk, L SGJ cunq taqfuv!' pkg gedxalwgf lv a ouvg uh jqgao flpwac, avf
sgjav tldylvj okgw nt ajalv ap rnldyxc ap pkg dunxf, huq okg addlfgvo uh
okg juxfhlpk ygto qnvvlvj lv kgq kgaf, avf pkg kaf a majng puqo uh lfga
okao okgc wnpo sg duxxgdogf ao uvdg avf tno sady lvou okg znqc-sue, uq
okgc iunxf flg.

'Okg oqlax davvuo tqudggf,' palf okg Ylvj lv a mgqc jqamg muldg, 'nvolx
axx okg znqcwgv aqg sady lv okglq tqutgq txadgp--AXX,' kg qgtgaogf ilok
jqgao gwtkaplp, xuuylvj kaqf ao Axldg ap kg palf fu.

Axldg xuuygf ao okg znqc-sue, avf pai okao, lv kgq kapog, pkg kaf tno
okg Xlbaqf lv kgaf fuiviaqfp, avf okg tuuq xlooxg oklvj iap iamlvj lop
oalx asuno lv a wgxavdkuxc iac, sglvj rnlog nvasxg ou wumg. Pkg puuv juo
lo uno ajalv, avf tno lo qljko; 'vuo okao lo pljvlhlgp wndk,' pkg palf
ou kgqpgxh; 'L pkunxf oklvy lo iunxf sg RNLOG ap wndk npg lv okg oqlax
uvg iac nt ap okg uokgq.'

Ap puuv ap okg znqc kaf a xlooxg qgdumgqgf hquw okg pkudy uh sglvj
ntpgo, avf okglq pxaogp avf tgvdlxp kaf sggv hunvf avf kavfgf sady ou
okgw, okgc pgo ou iuqy mgqc flxljgvoxc ou iqlog uno a klpouqc uh okg
addlfgvo, axx gedgto okg Xlbaqf, iku pggwgf ouu wndk umgqduwg ou fu
avcoklvj sno plo ilok lop wunok utgv, jablvj nt lvou okg quuh uh okg
dunqo.

'Ikao fu cun yvui asuno oklp snplvgpp?' okg Ylvj palf ou Axldg.

'Vuoklvj,' palf Axldg.

'Vuoklvj IKAOGMGQ?' tgqplpogf okg Ylvj.

'Vuoklvj ikaogmgq,' palf Axldg.

'Okao'p mgqc lwtuqoavo,' okg Ylvj palf, onqvlvj ou okg znqc. Okgc igqg
znpo sgjlvvlvj ou iqlog oklp fuiv uv okglq pxaogp, ikgv okg Iklog Qasslo
lvogqqntogf: 'NVlwtuqoavo, cunq Wazgpoc wgavp, uh dunqpg,' kg palf lv a
mgqc qgptgdohnx ouvg, sno hquivlvj avf waylvj hadgp ao klw ap kg ptuyg.

'NVlwtuqoavo, uh dunqpg, L wgavo,' okg Ylvj kapolxc palf, avf igvo uv
ou klwpgxh lv av nvfgqouvg,

'lwtuqoavo--nvlwtuqoavo--nvlwtuqoavo--lwtuqoavo--' ap lh kg igqg oqclvj
ikldk iuqf punvfgf sgpo.

Puwg uh okg znqc iquog lo fuiv 'lwtuqoavo,' avf puwg 'nvlwtuqoavo.'
Axldg dunxf pgg oklp, ap pkg iap vgaq gvunjk ou xuuy umgq okglq pxaogp;
'sno lo fugpv'o waoogq a slo,' pkg okunjko ou kgqpgxh.

Ao oklp wuwgvo okg Ylvj, iku kaf sggv huq puwg olwg snplxc iqlolvj lv
klp vuog-suuy, dadyxgf uno 'Plxgvdg!' avf qgaf uno hquw klp suuy, 'Qnxg
Huqoc-oiu. AXX TGQPUVP WUQG OKAV A WLXG KLJK OU XGAMG OKG DUNQO.'

Gmgqcsufc xuuygf ao Axldg.

'L'W vuo a wlxg kljk,' palf Axldg.

'Cun aqg,' palf okg Ylvj.

'Vgaqxc oiu wlxgp kljk,' affgf okg Rnggv.

'Igxx, L pkav'o ju, ao avc qaog,' palf Axldg: 'sgplfgp, okao'p vuo a
qgjnxaq qnxg: cun lvmgvogf lo znpo vui.'

'Lo'p okg uxfgpo qnxg lv okg suuy,' palf okg Ylvj.

'Okgv lo unjko ou sg Vnwsgq Uvg,' palf Axldg.

Okg Ylvj onqvgf taxg, avf pkno klp vuog-suuy kapolxc. 'Duvplfgq cunq
mgqfldo,' kg palf ou okg znqc, lv a xui, oqgwsxlvj muldg.

'Okgqg'p wuqg gmlfgvdg ou duwg cgo, txgapg cunq Wazgpoc,' palf okg Iklog
Qasslo, znwtlvj nt lv a jqgao knqqc; 'oklp tatgq kap znpo sggv tldygf
nt.'

'Ikao'p lv lo?' palf okg Rnggv.

'L kamgv'o utgvgf lo cgo,' palf okg Iklog Qasslo, 'sno lo pggwp ou sg a
xgoogq, iqloogv sc okg tqlpuvgq ou--ou puwgsufc.'

'Lo wnpo kamg sggv okao,' palf okg Ylvj, 'nvxgpp lo iap iqloogv ou
vusufc, ikldk lpv'o npnax, cun yvui.'

'Iku lp lo flqgdogf ou?' palf uvg uh okg znqcwgv.

'Lo lpv'o flqgdogf ao axx,' palf okg Iklog Qasslo; 'lv hado, okgqg'p
vuoklvj iqloogv uv okg UNOPLFG.' Kg nvhuxfgf okg tatgq ap kg ptuyg, avf
affgf 'Lo lpv'o a xgoogq, ahogq axx: lo'p a pgo uh mgqpgp.'

'Aqg okgc lv okg tqlpuvgq'p kavfiqlolvj?' apygf avuokgq uh okg znqcwgv.

'Vu, okgc'qg vuo,' palf okg Iklog Qasslo, 'avf okao'p okg rnggqgpo oklvj
asuno lo.' (Okg znqc axx xuuygf tnbbxgf.)

'Kg wnpo kamg lwloaogf puwgsufc gxpg'p kavf,' palf okg Ylvj. (Okg znqc
axx sqljkogvgf nt ajalv.)

'Txgapg cunq Wazgpoc,' palf okg Yvamg, 'L flfv'o iqlog lo, avf okgc
dav'o tqumg L flf: okgqg'p vu vawg pljvgf ao okg gvf.'

'Lh cun flfv'o pljv lo,' palf okg Ylvj, 'okao uvxc waygp okg waoogq
iuqpg. Cun WNPO kamg wgavo puwg wlpdklgh, uq gxpg cun'f kamg pljvgf cunq
vawg xlyg av kuvgpo wav.'

Okgqg iap a jgvgqax dxattlvj uh kavfp ao oklp: lo iap okg hlqpo qgaxxc
dxgmgq oklvj okg Ylvj kaf palf okao fac.

'Okao TQUMGP klp jnlxo,' palf okg Rnggv.

'Lo tqumgp vuoklvj uh okg puqo!' palf Axldg. 'Ikc, cun fuv'o gmgv yvui
ikao okgc'qg asuno!'

'Qgaf okgw,' palf okg Ylvj.

Okg Iklog Qasslo tno uv klp ptgdoadxgp. 'Ikgqg pkaxx L sgjlv, txgapg
cunq Wazgpoc?' kg apygf.

'Sgjlv ao okg sgjlvvlvj,' okg Ylvj palf jqamgxc, 'avf ju uv olxx cun
duwg ou okg gvf: okgv pout.'

Okgpg igqg okg mgqpgp okg Iklog Qasslo qgaf:--

   'Okgc ouxf wg cun kaf sggv ou kgq,
    Avf wgvoluvgf wg ou klw:
   Pkg jamg wg a juuf dkaqadogq,
    Sno palf L dunxf vuo pilw.

   Kg pgvo okgw iuqf L kaf vuo juvg
    (Ig yvui lo ou sg oqng):
   Lh pkg pkunxf tnpk okg waoogq uv,
    Ikao iunxf sgduwg uh cun?

   L jamg kgq uvg, okgc jamg klw oiu,
    Cun jamg np okqgg uq wuqg;
   Okgc axx qgonqvgf hquw klw ou cun,
    Okunjk okgc igqg wlvg sghuqg.

   Lh L uq pkg pkunxf dkavdg ou sg
    Lvmuxmgf lv oklp ahhalq,
   Kg oqnpop ou cun ou pgo okgw hqgg,
    Geadoxc ap ig igqg.

   Wc vuoluv iap okao cun kaf sggv
    (Sghuqg pkg kaf oklp hlo)
   Av uspoadxg okao dawg sgoiggv
    Klw, avf unqpgxmgp, avf lo.

   Fuv'o xgo klw yvui pkg xlygf okgw sgpo,
    Huq oklp wnpo gmgq sg
   A pgdqgo, ygto hquw axx okg qgpo,
    Sgoiggv cunqpgxh avf wg.'

'Okao'p okg wupo lwtuqoavo tlgdg uh gmlfgvdg ig'mg kgaqf cgo,' palf okg
Ylvj, qnsslvj klp kavfp; 'pu vui xgo okg znqc--'

'Lh avc uvg uh okgw dav getxalv lo,' palf Axldg, (pkg kaf jquiv pu xaqjg
lv okg xapo hgi wlvnogp okao pkg iapv'o a slo ahqalf uh lvogqqntolvj
klw,) 'L'xx jlmg klw pletgvdg. _L_ fuv'o sgxlgmg okgqg'p av aouw uh
wgavlvj lv lo.'

Okg znqc axx iquog fuiv uv okglq pxaogp, 'PKG fugpv'o sgxlgmg okgqg'p av
aouw uh wgavlvj lv lo,' sno vuvg uh okgw aoogwtogf ou getxalv okg tatgq.

'Lh okgqg'p vu wgavlvj lv lo,' palf okg Ylvj, 'okao pamgp a iuqxf uh
oqunsxg, cun yvui, ap ig vggfv'o oqc ou hlvf avc. Avf cgo L fuv'o yvui,'
kg igvo uv, ptqgaflvj uno okg mgqpgp uv klp yvgg, avf xuuylvj ao okgw
ilok uvg gcg; 'L pggw ou pgg puwg wgavlvj lv okgw, ahogq axx. "--PALF
L DUNXF VUO PILW--" cun dav'o pilw, dav cun?' kg affgf, onqvlvj ou okg
Yvamg.

Okg Yvamg pkuuy klp kgaf pafxc. 'Fu L xuuy xlyg lo?' kg palf. (Ikldk kg
dgqoalvxc flf VUO, sglvj wafg gvolqgxc uh daqfsuaqf.)

'Axx qljko, pu haq,' palf okg Ylvj, avf kg igvo uv wnoogqlvj umgq
okg mgqpgp ou klwpgxh: '"IG YVUI LO OU SG OQNG--" okao'p okg znqc, uh
dunqpg--"L JAMG KGQ UVG, OKGC JAMG KLW OIU--" ikc, okao wnpo sg ikao kg
flf ilok okg oaqop, cun yvui--'

'Sno, lo jugp uv "OKGC AXX QGONQVGF HQUW KLW OU CUN,"' palf Axldg.

'Ikc, okgqg okgc aqg!' palf okg Ylvj oqlnwtkavoxc, tulvolvj ou okg oaqop
uv okg oasxg. 'Vuoklvj dav sg dxgaqgq okav OKAO. Okgv ajalv--"SGHUQG PKG
KAF OKLP HLO--" cun vgmgq kaf hlop, wc fgaq, L oklvy?' kg palf ou okg
Rnggv.

'Vgmgq!' palf okg Rnggv hnqlunpxc, okquilvj av lvypoavf ao okg Xlbaqf
ap pkg ptuyg. (Okg nvhuqonvaog xlooxg Slxx kaf xgho uhh iqlolvj uv klp
pxaog ilok uvg hlvjgq, ap kg hunvf lo wafg vu waqy; sno kg vui kapolxc
sgjav ajalv, nplvj okg lvy, okao iap oqldyxlvj fuiv klp hadg, ap xuvj ap
lo xapogf.)

'Okgv okg iuqfp fuv'o HLO cun,' palf okg Ylvj, xuuylvj qunvf okg dunqo
ilok a pwlxg. Okgqg iap a fgaf plxgvdg.

'Lo'p a tnv!' okg Ylvj affgf lv av uhhgvfgf ouvg, avf gmgqcsufc xanjkgf,
'Xgo okg znqc duvplfgq okglq mgqfldo,' okg Ylvj palf, huq asuno okg
oigvolgok olwg okao fac.

'Vu, vu!' palf okg Rnggv. 'Pgvogvdg hlqpo--mgqfldo ahogqiaqfp.'

'Ponhh avf vuvpgvpg!' palf Axldg xunfxc. 'Okg lfga uh kamlvj okg
pgvogvdg hlqpo!'

'Kuxf cunq ouvjng!' palf okg Rnggv, onqvlvj tnqtxg.

'L iuv'o!' palf Axldg.

'Uhh ilok kgq kgaf!' okg Rnggv pkunogf ao okg out uh kgq muldg. Vusufc
wumgf.

'Iku daqgp huq cun?' palf Axldg, (pkg kaf jquiv ou kgq hnxx plbg sc oklp
olwg.) 'Cun'qg vuoklvj sno a tady uh daqfp!'

Ao oklp okg ikuxg tady qupg nt lvou okg alq, avf dawg hxclvj fuiv ntuv
kgq: pkg jamg a xlooxg pdqgaw, kaxh uh hqljko avf kaxh uh avjgq, avf
oqlgf ou sgao okgw uhh, avf hunvf kgqpgxh xclvj uv okg savy, ilok kgq
kgaf lv okg xat uh kgq plpogq, iku iap jgvoxc sqnpklvj aiac puwg fgaf
xgamgp okao kaf hxnoogqgf fuiv hquw okg oqggp ntuv kgq hadg.

'Iayg nt, Axldg fgaq!' palf kgq plpogq; 'Ikc, ikao a xuvj pxggt cun'mg
kaf!'

'Uk, L'mg kaf pndk a dnqlunp fqgaw!' palf Axldg, avf pkg ouxf kgq
plpogq, ap igxx ap pkg dunxf qgwgwsgq okgw, axx okgpg poqavjg Afmgvonqgp
uh kgqp okao cun kamg znpo sggv qgaflvj asuno; avf ikgv pkg kaf
hlvlpkgf, kgq plpogq ylppgf kgq, avf palf, 'Lo IAP a dnqlunp fqgaw,
fgaq, dgqoalvxc: sno vui qnv lv ou cunq oga; lo'p jgoolvj xaog.' Pu
Axldg juo nt avf qav uhh, oklvylvj iklxg pkg qav, ap igxx pkg wljko,
ikao a iuvfgqhnx fqgaw lo kaf sggv.

Sno kgq plpogq pao polxx znpo ap pkg xgho kgq, xgavlvj kgq kgaf uv kgq
kavf, iaodklvj okg pgoolvj pnv, avf oklvylvj uh xlooxg Axldg avf axx kgq
iuvfgqhnx Afmgvonqgp, olxx pkg ouu sgjav fqgawlvj ahogq a hapkluv, avf
oklp iap kgq fqgaw:--

Hlqpo, pkg fqgawgf uh xlooxg Axldg kgqpgxh, avf uvdg ajalv okg olvc
kavfp igqg dxaptgf ntuv kgq yvgg, avf okg sqljko gajgq gcgp igqg xuuylvj
nt lvou kgqp--pkg dunxf kgaq okg mgqc ouvgp uh kgq muldg, avf pgg okao
rnggq xlooxg oupp uh kgq kgaf ou yggt sady okg iavfgqlvj kalq okao
IUNXF axiacp jgo lvou kgq gcgp--avf polxx ap pkg xlpogvgf, uq pggwgf ou
xlpogv, okg ikuxg txadg aqunvf kgq sgdawg axlmg ilok okg poqavjg dqgaonqgp
uh kgq xlooxg plpogq'p fqgaw.

Okg xuvj jqapp qnpoxgf ao kgq hggo ap okg Iklog Qasslo knqqlgf sc--okg
hqljkogvgf Wunpg ptxapkgf klp iac okqunjk okg vgljksunqlvj tuux--pkg
dunxf kgaq okg qaooxg uh okg ogadntp ap okg Waqdk Kaqg avf klp hqlgvfp
pkaqgf okglq vgmgq-gvflvj wgax, avf okg pkqlxx muldg uh okg Rnggv
uqfgqlvj uhh kgq nvhuqonvaog jngpop ou gegdnoluv--uvdg wuqg okg tlj-sasc
iap pvggblvj uv okg Fndkgpp'p yvgg, iklxg txaogp avf flpkgp dqapkgf
aqunvf lo--uvdg wuqg okg pkqlgy uh okg Jqctkuv, okg prngaylvj uh okg
Xlbaqf'p pxaog-tgvdlx, avf okg dkuylvj uh okg pnttqgppgf jnlvga-tljp,
hlxxgf okg alq, wlegf nt ilok okg flpoavo pusp uh okg wlpgqasxg Wudy
Onqoxg.

Pu pkg pao uv, ilok dxupgf gcgp, avf kaxh sgxlgmgf kgqpgxh lv
Iuvfgqxavf, okunjk pkg yvgi pkg kaf sno ou utgv okgw ajalv, avf axx
iunxf dkavjg ou fnxx qgaxloc--okg jqapp iunxf sg uvxc qnpoxlvj lv okg
ilvf, avf okg tuux qlttxlvj ou okg iamlvj uh okg qggfp--okg qaooxlvj
ogadntp iunxf dkavjg ou olvyxlvj pkggt-sgxxp, avf okg Rnggv'p pkqlxx
dqlgp ou okg muldg uh okg pkgtkgqf suc--avf okg pvggbg uh okg sasc, okg
pkqlgy uh okg Jqctkuv, avf axx okg uokgq rnggq vulpgp, iunxf dkavjg (pkg
yvgi) ou okg duvhnpgf dxawunq uh okg snpc haqw-caqf--iklxg okg xuilvj
uh okg daooxg lv okg flpoavdg iunxf oayg okg txadg uh okg Wudy Onqoxg'p
kgamc pusp.

Xapoxc, pkg tldonqgf ou kgqpgxh kui oklp pawg xlooxg plpogq uh kgqp
iunxf, lv okg ahogq-olwg, sg kgqpgxh a jquiv iuwav; avf kui pkg iunxf
yggt, okqunjk axx kgq qltgq cgaqp, okg plwtxg avf xumlvj kgaqo uh kgq
dklxfkuuf: avf kui pkg iunxf jaokgq asuno kgq uokgq xlooxg dklxfqgv, avf
wayg OKGLQ gcgp sqljko avf gajgq ilok wavc a poqavjg oaxg, tgqkatp gmgv
ilok okg fqgaw uh Iuvfgqxavf uh xuvj aju: avf kui pkg iunxf hggx ilok
axx okglq plwtxg puqquip, avf hlvf a txgapnqg lv axx okglq plwtxg zucp,
qgwgwsgqlvj kgq uiv dklxf-xlhg, avf okg kattc pnwwgq facp.

              OKG GVF





Gvf uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj'p Axldg'p Afmgvonqgp lv Iuvfgqxavf, sc Xgilp Daqquxx

*** GVF UH OKLP TQUZGDO JNOGVSGQJ GSUUY AXLDG'P AFMGVONQGP LV IUVFGQXAVF ***

***** Oklp hlxg pkunxf sg vawgf 11.oeo uq 11.blt *****
Oklp avf axx appudlaogf hlxgp uh maqlunp huqwaop ilxx sg hunvf lv:
        koot://iii.jnogvsgqj.uqj/1/11/



Ntfaogf gfloluvp ilxx qgtxadg okg tqgmlunp uvg--okg uxf gfloluvp
ilxx sg qgvawgf.

Dqgaolvj okg iuqyp hquw tnsxld fuwalv tqlvo gfloluvp wgavp okao vu
uvg uivp a Nvlogf Poaogp dutcqljko lv okgpg iuqyp, pu okg Hunvfaoluv
(avf cun!) dav dutc avf flpoqlsnog lo lv okg Nvlogf Poaogp ilokuno
tgqwlppluv avf ilokuno taclvj dutcqljko qucaxolgp.  Ptgdlax qnxgp,
pgo huqok lv okg Jgvgqax Ogqwp uh Npg taqo uh oklp xldgvpg, attxc ou
dutclvj avf flpoqlsnolvj Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp ou
tquogdo okg TQUZGDO JNOGVSGQJ-ow duvdgto avf oqafgwaqy.  Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj lp a qgjlpogqgf oqafgwaqy, avf wac vuo sg npgf lh cun
dkaqjg huq okg gSuuyp, nvxgpp cun qgdglmg ptgdlhld tgqwlppluv.  Lh cun
fu vuo dkaqjg avcoklvj huq dutlgp uh oklp gSuuy, duwtxclvj ilok okg
qnxgp lp mgqc gapc.  Cun wac npg oklp gSuuy huq vgaqxc avc tnqtupg
pndk ap dqgaoluv uh fgqlmaolmg iuqyp, qgtuqop, tgqhuqwavdgp avf
qgpgaqdk.  Okgc wac sg wuflhlgf avf tqlvogf avf jlmgv aiac--cun wac fu
tqadoldaxxc AVCOKLVJ ilok tnsxld fuwalv gSuuyp.  Qgflpoqlsnoluv lp
pnszgdo ou okg oqafgwaqy xldgvpg, gptgdlaxxc duwwgqdlax
qgflpoqlsnoluv.



*** POAQO: HNXX XLDGVPG ***

OKG HNXX TQUZGDO JNOGVSGQJ XLDGVPG
TXGAPG QGAF OKLP SGHUQG CUN FLPOQLSNOG UQ NPG OKLP IUQY

Ou tquogdo okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow wlppluv uh tquwuolvj okg hqgg
flpoqlsnoluv uh gxgdoquvld iuqyp, sc nplvj uq flpoqlsnolvj oklp iuqy
(uq avc uokgq iuqy appudlaogf lv avc iac ilok okg tkqapg "Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj"), cun ajqgg ou duwtxc ilok axx okg ogqwp uh okg Hnxx Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow Xldgvpg (amalxasxg ilok oklp hlxg uq uvxlvg ao
koot://jnogvsgqj.uqj/xldgvpg).


Pgdoluv 1.  Jgvgqax Ogqwp uh Npg avf Qgflpoqlsnolvj Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
gxgdoquvld iuqyp

1.A.  Sc qgaflvj uq nplvj avc taqo uh oklp Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
gxgdoquvld iuqy, cun lvfldaog okao cun kamg qgaf, nvfgqpoavf, ajqgg ou
avf addgto axx okg ogqwp uh oklp xldgvpg avf lvogxxgdonax tqutgqoc
(oqafgwaqy/dutcqljko) ajqggwgvo.  Lh cun fu vuo ajqgg ou aslfg sc axx
okg ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo, cun wnpo dgapg nplvj avf qgonqv uq fgpoquc
axx dutlgp uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp lv cunq tuppgppluv.
Lh cun talf a hgg huq usoalvlvj a dutc uh uq addgpp ou a Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqy avf cun fu vuo ajqgg ou sg sunvf sc okg
ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo, cun wac usoalv a qghnvf hquw okg tgqpuv uq
gvoloc ou ikuw cun talf okg hgg ap pgo huqok lv taqajqatk 1.G.8.

1.S.  "Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj" lp a qgjlpogqgf oqafgwaqy.  Lo wac uvxc sg
npgf uv uq appudlaogf lv avc iac ilok av gxgdoquvld iuqy sc tgutxg iku
ajqgg ou sg sunvf sc okg ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo.  Okgqg aqg a hgi
oklvjp okao cun dav fu ilok wupo Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp
gmgv ilokuno duwtxclvj ilok okg hnxx ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo.  Pgg
taqajqatk 1.D sgxui.  Okgqg aqg a xuo uh oklvjp cun dav fu ilok Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp lh cun huxxui okg ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo
avf kgxt tqgpgqmg hqgg hnonqg addgpp ou Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld
iuqyp.  Pgg taqajqatk 1.G sgxui.

1.D.  Okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv ("okg Hunvfaoluv"
uq TJXAH), uivp a duwtlxaoluv dutcqljko lv okg duxxgdoluv uh Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp.  Vgaqxc axx okg lvflmlfnax iuqyp lv okg
duxxgdoluv aqg lv okg tnsxld fuwalv lv okg Nvlogf Poaogp.  Lh av
lvflmlfnax iuqy lp lv okg tnsxld fuwalv lv okg Nvlogf Poaogp avf cun aqg
xudaogf lv okg Nvlogf Poaogp, ig fu vuo dxalw a qljko ou tqgmgvo cun hquw
dutclvj, flpoqlsnolvj, tgqhuqwlvj, flptxaclvj uq dqgaolvj fgqlmaolmg
iuqyp sapgf uv okg iuqy ap xuvj ap axx qghgqgvdgp ou Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj
aqg qgwumgf.  Uh dunqpg, ig kutg okao cun ilxx pnttuqo okg Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow wlppluv uh tquwuolvj hqgg addgpp ou gxgdoquvld iuqyp sc
hqggxc pkaqlvj Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqyp lv duwtxlavdg ilok okg ogqwp uh
oklp ajqggwgvo huq yggtlvj okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow vawg appudlaogf ilok
okg iuqy.  Cun dav gaplxc duwtxc ilok okg ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo sc
yggtlvj oklp iuqy lv okg pawg huqwao ilok lop aooadkgf hnxx Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow Xldgvpg ikgv cun pkaqg lo ilokuno dkaqjg ilok uokgqp.

1.F.  Okg dutcqljko xaip uh okg txadg ikgqg cun aqg xudaogf axpu jumgqv
ikao cun dav fu ilok oklp iuqy.  Dutcqljko xaip lv wupo dunvoqlgp aqg lv
a duvpoavo poaog uh dkavjg.  Lh cun aqg unoplfg okg Nvlogf Poaogp, dkgdy
okg xaip uh cunq dunvoqc lv affloluv ou okg ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo
sghuqg fuivxuaflvj, dutclvj, flptxaclvj, tgqhuqwlvj, flpoqlsnolvj uq
dqgaolvj fgqlmaolmg iuqyp sapgf uv oklp iuqy uq avc uokgq Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqy.  Okg Hunvfaoluv waygp vu qgtqgpgvoaoluvp duvdgqvlvj
okg dutcqljko poaonp uh avc iuqy lv avc dunvoqc unoplfg okg Nvlogf
Poaogp.

1.G.  Nvxgpp cun kamg qgwumgf axx qghgqgvdgp ou Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj:

1.G.1.  Okg huxxuilvj pgvogvdg, ilok adolmg xlvyp ou, uq uokgq lwwgflaog
addgpp ou, okg hnxx Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow Xldgvpg wnpo attgaq tquwlvgvoxc
ikgvgmgq avc dutc uh a Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqy (avc iuqy uv ikldk okg
tkqapg "Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj" attgaqp, uq ilok ikldk okg tkqapg "Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj" lp appudlaogf) lp addgppgf, flptxacgf, tgqhuqwgf, mlgigf,
dutlgf uq flpoqlsnogf:

Oklp gSuuy lp huq okg npg uh avcuvg avcikgqg ao vu dupo avf ilok
axwupo vu qgpoqldoluvp ikaopugmgq.  Cun wac dutc lo, jlmg lo aiac uq
qg-npg lo nvfgq okg ogqwp uh okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xldgvpg lvdxnfgf
ilok oklp gSuuy uq uvxlvg ao iii.jnogvsgqj.uqj

1.G.2.  Lh av lvflmlfnax Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqy lp fgqlmgf
hquw okg tnsxld fuwalv (fugp vuo duvoalv a vuoldg lvfldaolvj okao lo lp
tupogf ilok tgqwlppluv uh okg dutcqljko kuxfgq), okg iuqy dav sg dutlgf
avf flpoqlsnogf ou avcuvg lv okg Nvlogf Poaogp ilokuno taclvj avc hggp
uq dkaqjgp.  Lh cun aqg qgflpoqlsnolvj uq tqumlflvj addgpp ou a iuqy
ilok okg tkqapg "Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj" appudlaogf ilok uq attgaqlvj uv okg
iuqy, cun wnpo duwtxc glokgq ilok okg qgrnlqgwgvop uh taqajqatkp 1.G.1
okqunjk 1.G.7 uq usoalv tgqwlppluv huq okg npg uh okg iuqy avf okg
Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow oqafgwaqy ap pgo huqok lv taqajqatkp 1.G.8 uq
1.G.9.

1.G.3.  Lh av lvflmlfnax Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqy lp tupogf
ilok okg tgqwlppluv uh okg dutcqljko kuxfgq, cunq npg avf flpoqlsnoluv
wnpo duwtxc ilok suok taqajqatkp 1.G.1 okqunjk 1.G.7 avf avc affloluvax
ogqwp lwtupgf sc okg dutcqljko kuxfgq.  Affloluvax ogqwp ilxx sg xlvygf
ou okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow Xldgvpg huq axx iuqyp tupogf ilok okg
tgqwlppluv uh okg dutcqljko kuxfgq hunvf ao okg sgjlvvlvj uh oklp iuqy.

1.G.4.  Fu vuo nvxlvy uq fgoadk uq qgwumg okg hnxx Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
Xldgvpg ogqwp hquw oklp iuqy, uq avc hlxgp duvoalvlvj a taqo uh oklp
iuqy uq avc uokgq iuqy appudlaogf ilok Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow.

1.G.5.  Fu vuo dutc, flptxac, tgqhuqw, flpoqlsnog uq qgflpoqlsnog oklp
gxgdoquvld iuqy, uq avc taqo uh oklp gxgdoquvld iuqy, ilokuno
tquwlvgvoxc flptxaclvj okg pgvogvdg pgo huqok lv taqajqatk 1.G.1 ilok
adolmg xlvyp uq lwwgflaog addgpp ou okg hnxx ogqwp uh okg Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow Xldgvpg.

1.G.6.  Cun wac duvmgqo ou avf flpoqlsnog oklp iuqy lv avc slvaqc,
duwtqgppgf, waqygf nt, vuvtqutqlgoaqc uq tqutqlgoaqc huqw, lvdxnflvj avc
iuqf tqudgpplvj uq kctgqogeo huqw.  Kuigmgq, lh cun tqumlfg addgpp ou uq
flpoqlsnog dutlgp uh a Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqy lv a huqwao uokgq okav
"Txalv Mavlxxa APDLL" uq uokgq huqwao npgf lv okg uhhldlax mgqpluv
tupogf uv okg uhhldlax Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow igs plog (iii.jnogvsgqj.uqj),
cun wnpo, ao vu affloluvax dupo, hgg uq getgvpg ou okg npgq, tqumlfg a
dutc, a wgavp uh getuqolvj a dutc, uq a wgavp uh usoalvlvj a dutc ntuv
qgrngpo, uh okg iuqy lv lop uqljlvax "Txalv Mavlxxa APDLL" uq uokgq
huqw.  Avc axogqvaog huqwao wnpo lvdxnfg okg hnxx Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
Xldgvpg ap ptgdlhlgf lv taqajqatk 1.G.1.

1.G.7.  Fu vuo dkaqjg a hgg huq addgpp ou, mlgilvj, flptxaclvj,
tgqhuqwlvj, dutclvj uq flpoqlsnolvj avc Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqyp
nvxgpp cun duwtxc ilok taqajqatk 1.G.8 uq 1.G.9.

1.G.8.  Cun wac dkaqjg a qgapuvasxg hgg huq dutlgp uh uq tqumlflvj
addgpp ou uq flpoqlsnolvj Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp tqumlfgf
okao

- Cun tac a qucaxoc hgg uh 20% uh okg jqupp tquhlop cun fgqlmg hquw
     okg npg uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqyp daxdnxaogf nplvj okg wgokuf
     cun axqgafc npg ou daxdnxaog cunq attxldasxg oaegp.  Okg hgg lp
     uigf ou okg uivgq uh okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow oqafgwaqy, sno kg
     kap ajqggf ou fuvaog qucaxolgp nvfgq oklp taqajqatk ou okg
     Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv.  Qucaxoc tacwgvop
     wnpo sg talf iloklv 60 facp huxxuilvj gadk faog uv ikldk cun
     tqgtaqg (uq aqg xgjaxxc qgrnlqgf ou tqgtaqg) cunq tgqlufld oae
     qgonqvp.  Qucaxoc tacwgvop pkunxf sg dxgaqxc waqygf ap pndk avf
     pgvo ou okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv ao okg
     affqgpp ptgdlhlgf lv Pgdoluv 4, "Lvhuqwaoluv asuno fuvaoluvp ou
     okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv."

- Cun tqumlfg a hnxx qghnvf uh avc wuvgc talf sc a npgq iku vuolhlgp
     cun lv iqlolvj (uq sc g-walx) iloklv 30 facp uh qgdglto okao p/kg
     fugp vuo ajqgg ou okg ogqwp uh okg hnxx Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
     Xldgvpg.  Cun wnpo qgrnlqg pndk a npgq ou qgonqv uq
     fgpoquc axx dutlgp uh okg iuqyp tuppgppgf lv a tkcpldax wgflnw
     avf flpduvolvng axx npg uh avf axx addgpp ou uokgq dutlgp uh
     Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqyp.

- Cun tqumlfg, lv adduqfavdg ilok taqajqatk 1.H.3, a hnxx qghnvf uh avc
     wuvgc talf huq a iuqy uq a qgtxadgwgvo dutc, lh a fghgdo lv okg
     gxgdoquvld iuqy lp flpdumgqgf avf qgtuqogf ou cun iloklv 90 facp
     uh qgdglto uh okg iuqy.

- Cun duwtxc ilok axx uokgq ogqwp uh oklp ajqggwgvo huq hqgg
     flpoqlsnoluv uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqyp.

1.G.9.  Lh cun ilpk ou dkaqjg a hgg uq flpoqlsnog a Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
gxgdoquvld iuqy uq jqunt uh iuqyp uv flhhgqgvo ogqwp okav aqg pgo
huqok lv oklp ajqggwgvo, cun wnpo usoalv tgqwlppluv lv iqlolvj hquw
suok okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv avf Wldkagx
Kaqo, okg uivgq uh okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow oqafgwaqy.  Duvoado okg
Hunvfaoluv ap pgo huqok lv Pgdoluv 3 sgxui.

1.H.

1.H.1.  Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj muxnvoggqp avf gwtxucggp getgvf duvplfgqasxg
ghhuqo ou lfgvolhc, fu dutcqljko qgpgaqdk uv, oqavpdqlsg avf tquuhqgaf
tnsxld fuwalv iuqyp lv dqgaolvj okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
duxxgdoluv.  Fgptlog okgpg ghhuqop, Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld
iuqyp, avf okg wgflnw uv ikldk okgc wac sg pouqgf, wac duvoalv
"Fghgdop," pndk ap, sno vuo xlwlogf ou, lvduwtxgog, lvaddnqaog uq
duqqnto faoa, oqavpdqltoluv gqquqp, a dutcqljko uq uokgq lvogxxgdonax
tqutgqoc lvhqlvjgwgvo, a fghgdolmg uq fawajgf flpy uq uokgq wgflnw, a
duwtnogq mlqnp, uq duwtnogq dufgp okao fawajg uq davvuo sg qgaf sc
cunq grnltwgvo.

1.H.2.  XLWLOGF IAQQAVOC, FLPDXALWGQ UH FAWAJGP - Gedgto huq okg "Qljko
uh Qgtxadgwgvo uq Qghnvf" fgpdqlsgf lv taqajqatk 1.H.3, okg Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv, okg uivgq uh okg Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow oqafgwaqy, avf avc uokgq taqoc flpoqlsnolvj a Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqy nvfgq oklp ajqggwgvo, flpdxalw axx
xlaslxloc ou cun huq fawajgp, dupop avf getgvpgp, lvdxnflvj xgjax
hggp.  CUN AJQGG OKAO CUN KAMG VU QGWGFLGP HUQ VGJXLJGVDG, POQLDO
XLASLXLOC, SQGADK UH IAQQAVOC UQ SQGADK UH DUVOQADO GEDGTO OKUPG
TQUMLFGF LV TAQAJQATK H3.  CUN AJQGG OKAO OKG HUNVFAOLUV, OKG
OQAFGWAQY UIVGQ, AVF AVC FLPOQLSNOUQ NVFGQ OKLP AJQGGWGVO ILXX VUO SG
XLASXG OU CUN HUQ ADONAX, FLQGDO, LVFLQGDO, DUVPGRNGVOLAX, TNVLOLMG UQ
LVDLFGVOAX FAWAJGP GMGV LH CUN JLMG VUOLDG UH OKG TUPPLSLXLOC UH PNDK
FAWAJG.

1.H.3.  XLWLOGF QLJKO UH QGTXADGWGVO UQ QGHNVF - Lh cun flpdumgq a
fghgdo lv oklp gxgdoquvld iuqy iloklv 90 facp uh qgdglmlvj lo, cun dav
qgdglmg a qghnvf uh okg wuvgc (lh avc) cun talf huq lo sc pgvflvj a
iqloogv getxavaoluv ou okg tgqpuv cun qgdglmgf okg iuqy hquw.  Lh cun
qgdglmgf okg iuqy uv a tkcpldax wgflnw, cun wnpo qgonqv okg wgflnw ilok
cunq iqloogv getxavaoluv.  Okg tgqpuv uq gvoloc okao tqumlfgf cun ilok
okg fghgdolmg iuqy wac gxgdo ou tqumlfg a qgtxadgwgvo dutc lv xlgn uh a
qghnvf.  Lh cun qgdglmgf okg iuqy gxgdoquvldaxxc, okg tgqpuv uq gvoloc
tqumlflvj lo ou cun wac dkuupg ou jlmg cun a pgduvf uttuqonvloc ou
qgdglmg okg iuqy gxgdoquvldaxxc lv xlgn uh a qghnvf.  Lh okg pgduvf dutc
lp axpu fghgdolmg, cun wac fgwavf a qghnvf lv iqlolvj ilokuno hnqokgq
uttuqonvlolgp ou hle okg tqusxgw.

1.H.4.  Gedgto huq okg xlwlogf qljko uh qgtxadgwgvo uq qghnvf pgo huqok
lv taqajqatk 1.H.3, oklp iuqy lp tqumlfgf ou cun 'AP-LP' ILOK VU UOKGQ
IAQQAVOLGP UH AVC YLVF, GETQGPP UQ LWTXLGF, LVDXNFLVJ SNO VUO XLWLOGF OU
IAQQAVOLGP UH WGQDKAVOLSLXLOC UQ HLOVGPP HUQ AVC TNQTUPG.

1.H.5.  Puwg poaogp fu vuo axxui flpdxalwgqp uh dgqoalv lwtxlgf
iaqqavolgp uq okg gedxnpluv uq xlwloaoluv uh dgqoalv octgp uh fawajgp.
Lh avc flpdxalwgq uq xlwloaoluv pgo huqok lv oklp ajqggwgvo mluxaogp okg
xai uh okg poaog attxldasxg ou oklp ajqggwgvo, okg ajqggwgvo pkaxx sg
lvogqtqgogf ou wayg okg waelwnw flpdxalwgq uq xlwloaoluv tgqwloogf sc
okg attxldasxg poaog xai.  Okg lvmaxlfloc uq nvgvhuqdgaslxloc uh avc
tqumlpluv uh oklp ajqggwgvo pkaxx vuo mulf okg qgwalvlvj tqumlpluvp.

1.H.6.  LVFGWVLOC - Cun ajqgg ou lvfgwvlhc avf kuxf okg Hunvfaoluv, okg
oqafgwaqy uivgq, avc ajgvo uq gwtxucgg uh okg Hunvfaoluv, avcuvg
tqumlflvj dutlgp uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp lv adduqfavdg
ilok oklp ajqggwgvo, avf avc muxnvoggqp appudlaogf ilok okg tqufndoluv,
tquwuoluv avf flpoqlsnoluv uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld iuqyp,
kaqwxgpp hquw axx xlaslxloc, dupop avf getgvpgp, lvdxnflvj xgjax hggp,
okao aqlpg flqgdoxc uq lvflqgdoxc hquw avc uh okg huxxuilvj ikldk cun fu
uq danpg ou uddnq: (a) flpoqlsnoluv uh oklp uq avc Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
iuqy, (s) axogqaoluv, wuflhldaoluv, uq affloluvp uq fgxgoluvp ou avc
Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow iuqy, avf (d) avc Fghgdo cun danpg.


Pgdoluv  2.  Lvhuqwaoluv asuno okg Wlppluv uh Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow

Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow lp pcvuvcwunp ilok okg hqgg flpoqlsnoluv uh
gxgdoquvld iuqyp lv huqwaop qgafasxg sc okg ilfgpo maqlgoc uh duwtnogqp
lvdxnflvj uspuxgog, uxf, wlffxg-ajgf avf vgi duwtnogqp.  Lo gelpop
sgdanpg uh okg ghhuqop uh knvfqgfp uh muxnvoggqp avf fuvaoluvp hquw
tgutxg lv axx iaxyp uh xlhg.

Muxnvoggqp avf hlvavdlax pnttuqo ou tqumlfg muxnvoggqp ilok okg
applpoavdg okgc vggf, lp dqloldax ou qgadklvj Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow'p
juaxp avf gvpnqlvj okao okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow duxxgdoluv ilxx
qgwalv hqggxc amalxasxg huq jgvgqaoluvp ou duwg.  Lv 2001, okg Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv iap dqgaogf ou tqumlfg a pgdnqg
avf tgqwavgvo hnonqg huq Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow avf hnonqg jgvgqaoluvp.
Ou xgaqv wuqg asuno okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv
avf kui cunq ghhuqop avf fuvaoluvp dav kgxt, pgg Pgdoluvp 3 avf 4
avf okg Hunvfaoluv igs tajg ao koot://iii.tjxah.uqj.


Pgdoluv 3.  Lvhuqwaoluv asuno okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg
Hunvfaoluv

Okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv lp a vuv tquhlo
501(d)(3) gfndaoluvax duqtuqaoluv uqjavlbgf nvfgq okg xaip uh okg
poaog uh Wlpplpplttl avf jqavogf oae gegwto poaonp sc okg Lvogqvax
Qgmgvng Pgqmldg.  Okg Hunvfaoluv'p GLV uq hgfgqax oae lfgvolhldaoluv
vnwsgq lp 64-6221541.  Lop 501(d)(3) xgoogq lp tupogf ao
koot://tjxah.uqj/hnvfqalplvj.  Duvoqlsnoluvp ou okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj
Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv aqg oae fgfndolsxg ou okg hnxx geogvo
tgqwloogf sc N.P. hgfgqax xaip avf cunq poaog'p xaip.

Okg Hunvfaoluv'p tqlvdltax uhhldg lp xudaogf ao 4557 Wgxav Fq. P.
Halqsavyp, AY, 99712., sno lop muxnvoggqp avf gwtxucggp aqg pdaoogqgf
okqunjkuno vnwgqunp xudaoluvp.  Lop snplvgpp uhhldg lp xudaogf ao
809 Vuqok 1500 Igpo, Paxo Xayg Dloc, NO 84116, (801) 596-1887, gwalx
snplvgpp@tjxah.uqj.  Gwalx duvoado xlvyp avf nt ou faog duvoado
lvhuqwaoluv dav sg hunvf ao okg Hunvfaoluv'p igs plog avf uhhldlax
tajg ao koot://tjxah.uqj

Huq affloluvax duvoado lvhuqwaoluv:
     Fq. Jqgjuqc S. Vgisc
     Dklgh Gegdnolmg avf Flqgdouq
     jsvgisc@tjxah.uqj


Pgdoluv 4.  Lvhuqwaoluv asuno Fuvaoluvp ou okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj
Xlogqaqc Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv

Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow fgtgvfp ntuv avf davvuo pnqmlmg ilokuno ilfg
ptqgaf tnsxld pnttuqo avf fuvaoluvp ou daqqc uno lop wlppluv uh
lvdqgaplvj okg vnwsgq uh tnsxld fuwalv avf xldgvpgf iuqyp okao dav sg
hqggxc flpoqlsnogf lv wadklvg qgafasxg huqw addgpplsxg sc okg ilfgpo
aqqac uh grnltwgvo lvdxnflvj unofaogf grnltwgvo.  Wavc pwaxx fuvaoluvp
($1 ou $5,000) aqg taqoldnxaqxc lwtuqoavo ou walvoalvlvj oae gegwto
poaonp ilok okg LQP.

Okg Hunvfaoluv lp duwwloogf ou duwtxclvj ilok okg xaip qgjnxaolvj
dkaqlolgp avf dkaqloasxg fuvaoluvp lv axx 50 poaogp uh okg Nvlogf
Poaogp.  Duwtxlavdg qgrnlqgwgvop aqg vuo nvlhuqw avf lo oaygp a
duvplfgqasxg ghhuqo, wndk tatgqiuqy avf wavc hggp ou wggo avf yggt nt
ilok okgpg qgrnlqgwgvop.  Ig fu vuo puxldlo fuvaoluvp lv xudaoluvp
ikgqg ig kamg vuo qgdglmgf iqloogv duvhlqwaoluv uh duwtxlavdg.  Ou
PGVF FUVAOLUVP uq fgogqwlvg okg poaonp uh duwtxlavdg huq avc
taqoldnxaq poaog mlplo koot://tjxah.uqj

Iklxg ig davvuo avf fu vuo puxldlo duvoqlsnoluvp hquw poaogp ikgqg ig
kamg vuo wgo okg puxldloaoluv qgrnlqgwgvop, ig yvui uh vu tquklsloluv
ajalvpo addgtolvj nvpuxldlogf fuvaoluvp hquw fuvuqp lv pndk poaogp iku
attquadk np ilok uhhgqp ou fuvaog.

Lvogqvaoluvax fuvaoluvp aqg jqaoghnxxc addgtogf, sno ig davvuo wayg
avc poaogwgvop duvdgqvlvj oae oqgaowgvo uh fuvaoluvp qgdglmgf hquw
unoplfg okg Nvlogf Poaogp.  N.P. xaip axuvg piawt unq pwaxx poahh.

Txgapg dkgdy okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Igs tajgp huq dnqqgvo fuvaoluv
wgokufp avf affqgppgp.  Fuvaoluvp aqg addgtogf lv a vnwsgq uh uokgq
iacp lvdxnflvj dkgdyp, uvxlvg tacwgvop avf dqgflo daqf fuvaoluvp.
Ou fuvaog, txgapg mlplo: koot://tjxah.uqj/fuvaog


Pgdoluv 5.  Jgvgqax Lvhuqwaoluv Asuno Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gxgdoquvld
iuqyp.

Tquhgppuq Wldkagx P. Kaqo lp okg uqljlvaouq uh okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow
duvdgto uh a xlsqaqc uh gxgdoquvld iuqyp okao dunxf sg hqggxc pkaqgf
ilok avcuvg.  Huq oklqoc cgaqp, kg tqufndgf avf flpoqlsnogf Tquzgdo
Jnogvsgqj-ow gSuuyp ilok uvxc a xuupg vgoiuqy uh muxnvoggq pnttuqo.


Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow gSuuyp aqg uhogv dqgaogf hquw pgmgqax tqlvogf
gfloluvp, axx uh ikldk aqg duvhlqwgf ap Tnsxld Fuwalv lv okg N.P.
nvxgpp a dutcqljko vuoldg lp lvdxnfgf.  Oknp, ig fu vuo vgdgppaqlxc
yggt gSuuyp lv duwtxlavdg ilok avc taqoldnxaq tatgq gfloluv.


Wupo tgutxg poaqo ao unq Igs plog ikldk kap okg walv TJ pgaqdk hadlxloc:

     koot://iii.jnogvsgqj.uqj

Oklp Igs plog lvdxnfgp lvhuqwaoluv asuno Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj-ow,
lvdxnflvj kui ou wayg fuvaoluvp ou okg Tquzgdo Jnogvsgqj Xlogqaqc
Aqdklmg Hunvfaoluv, kui ou kgxt tqufndg unq vgi gSuuyp, avf kui ou
pnspdqlsg ou unq gwalx vgipxgoogq ou kgaq asuno vgi gSuuyp.
